 The definition of personal identifiable information, PIE, PII, sorry, and then what is important is that we have to understand today just a simple concept, because we have just one hour and a half and we need to understand, we can say the last lecture was a balance of interest, the main title, and today the lecture is personal information, personal data. We have to understand the three categories, are really important, we have three categories, the first one is common data, the second one is, then we have the slide obviously, the special categories of data, and the third one is the judicial data. The GDPR made these three big distinctions, obviously is more sensitive and we can imagine the judicial data, and rather than common data. But we have to understand that in a wonderful class of people, of guys and girls that arrived from any part of the world, that there is a huge difference in the perception, in the feeling of the judicial data. So this is the first thing that we have to know in your country, in the east, in the west, part of the world, how is the perception of the judicial data. For example, in the United States you have the right to know if the person in front of you has committed a crime. So you have the judicial data are public in a certain sense. Obviously you cannot Google but you can ask to the court if Giuseppe Vacciago has committed a crime, and then you can obtain this information. In Europe there is the opposite situation. You cannot go to the court and ask if a person has committed a crime. For example in Italy it's totally forbidden. But moreover we have a situation where it is impossible also for an employer to ask to the employee a certificate of the crime that has or not has committed. So I'm curious to understand about the situation, for example in Estonia, you are from Estonia, how is the situation in Estonia? You have the right, perhaps you don't know, but how is this? You can know if a person has committed a crime, apart from what is public obviously. You can read on Google and this is public information, but you have the right to know if a normal person has committed a crime, if you go to the court, or is it judicial information so they are not allowed to know this kind of information. Excuse me. Sorry? You don't think that this public is okay? I imagine because I think that in Europe we have this kind of general legislation but any country can have a different law. So this is really important because we all agree about, we all agree that we have to discuss today about the special categories of data. We absolutely have a different perception regarding the judicial data and this is why it's important to know these three distinctions. Common data, special categories of data, judicial data, all these three kinds of data are personal data. Personal data, three categories. Yes, the last week I was mentioned the article four of GDPR. It's not obviously for the exam, it would be wonderful to know by heart this definition, but what you have to remember just to complete the potential question is to explain that personal data is something that could, any kind of information could direct or undirectly identify the person. Direct or undirectly. Then we will discuss about the IP address and the anonymization issue and just to explain this information, but this is the definition that we have to learn. Then you have different perception of the PII of personal identity and information according to the US legislation or according to ISO standards and obviously but the important things for the exam is the article four. Then coming back to this slide because we have to explain a little bit the difference between the personal data and the special categories of data. I want to clarify one thing that could create confusion to you. Personal data, you can see this is a course for identifying the common data. I prefer to use common data because all the categories are personal data. So this slide in a certain sense is misleading, but it's also correct. In general terms, when you read any kind of paper you'll see personal data as name, address, phone, bank, credit cards, email, IP, cookies, online, etc. This is the example of the personal data. But these are also defined common data. Just to make a distinction between this data between this and data. You can also say this is personal data, this is special categories of data and then we have to differentiate it. But now we can also say common data, special categories of data, both are personal data. To be precise, both are personal data, this is common data, this is special categories of data. But if you want you can, as I explained before, make this kind of distinction. So these are personal data. Coming back to these categories, biometric data, genetic data, health data, I think that we all agree that these are for every part of the world special categories of data. We don't have any doubts about this kind of data. But what is a little bit difficult, what can change in our culture around the world? Racial or ethnic origin, political opinion, religious or philosophical belief, trade union membership. This kind of information regarding you could have a different impact in different regions or countries in the world, as you can imagine. There are countries where your political opinion is not so simple to, we talked about freedom of expression for this, and could compromise your life. And perhaps in the legislation of that country are not special categories of data because you are obliged to have a certain political opinion. And also, religions of philosophical beliefs is another sensitive point. Again, racial or ethnic origin is something that could create, we could say, other differences. What I want to say to you that these kind of special categories of data, especially the one from racial up to trade union membership, is it clear to you what is a trade union membership? Yes, no? No. Okay, trade union membership, perhaps you don't have, or I think that you have in your country, but when you work in a company, as an employee you have some right, and you have the right to be in association of other people to defend your right of labor, and so you are present in this kind of association. Do you understand what I mean? It's a little bit clearer now. So in Italy we have many, many associations that defend right of the employee, of the person, of the workers. We can, it's better to say workers because when you think of an employee, you think of a different kind of work, it's more general, especially the person that work in the fabric or other difficult situation. So it's important to be in association to defend the right of the workers. So the fact that you are in a trade union association could compromise your, the feeling that the, for example, just to clarify, I'm the employer, I need to employ some workers, and I start to discriminate the person that are present in a certain association, because I say I don't want that kind of workers, because they don't work as I want, they defend their right, so I prefer to have a person that is not present in, that does not have any kind of association, because they don't have this kind of person, they work two more, and so I create discrimination between the person that are in that kind of association, and respect of the other one that are not present in the association. That's why this is a sensitive data. But this is the complex example, in a certain sense, it's really simpler to make another example regarding religion, or especially, because this is another example of special categories of data that is not present, that is sexual orientation. For example, who I'm an employer, and I say that I don't want some person that has a different sexual orientation, so I can create discrimination in that sense, or I don't want to have any Muslim or Catholic person in my company, so I can make a discrimination regarding religion. So this kind of data, for this reason are special, for the reason should be protected more than this. Then again, when we talk about bank credit cards, in a certain sense, for us it's a little bit more important to protect our money, but for the GDPR, and in general for the fundamental rights, it's more important to protect the fact that you need to have your religion and to believe in what is important for you, rather than your bank account. This is the loop. So this is the distinction. These are special categories of data because are more important, personal data, we could say, are not less important, are also important, but not like special categories of data. Okay, so we were talking about sexual orientation. What happened in this Likwani case? This person has to make a declaration of private interest to the Likwani administrative authorities, including information about his acquaintance and relatives for the purposes of identifying potential conflict of interest. So this is the declaration that you have to make to the administrative law, and then they have to ask you who are your husband or wife just to give this information. And if your husband or wife is of the same sex of you, obviously you will write in this declaration a sexual orientation, so you can make a sort of self-discrimination because you explain to the administrative authorities your kind of, especially if it's not your husband, but just the person that lives with you, and you have to write in this declaration who is the person that lives with you just to avoid the potential conflict of interest. The general purpose of the Likwani administrative authority, also in Italy, we have the same, but in every part of the world, is a good purpose, because you want to know if the person that lives with you has a conflict of interest in a specific case with the state of Likwani or for the city, perhaps one city of Likwani. So this is the purpose of the administrative authorities, in this declaration you are going to explain what are your sexual orientations. Why I chose this example? Because privacy and GDPR is something that is not so immediate, it's not so simple, because sometimes when you say something you don't think that there is a connection with your privacy, but every information that you say about you could have an impact in your life. Make a stupid example. Two stupid examples, one is not stupid, the second is stupid. Let's start with the stupid one. I support a certain football or other sport team, and then in my community, in my social community, I have a group and then I can say what I want and then I'm feeling very good. But at the same time, if this group is not just a WhatsApp group, but is a public group, I could create a discrimination of myself, because I support this kind of team. And this is the stupid example. What is not so stupid example? The fact that I manage a case of a Romanian woman that felt in love with an Italian guy, and then they have to go to have a wonderful wedding. One week before, this Italian guy started to google her name just to see something about her, or perhaps just to make something that we all, every day, every one of us do, for any kind of situation, to see who is the other person. So basically, this is, we call it, OZINT, that is open source intelligence. It's something that you do when you want to investigate something on the web, but with open source, Google is open. So what happened in this investigation? It happens that this girl was assaulted, was sex assaulted by seven Romanian guys when she was 14 years old. So when she was 14 years old, she had this kind of assault with the seven guys. And why this person read this information? Because the ministry of justice, of the Romanian minister of justice, published the judgment decision, the criminal judge decision, were obviously, these seven guys were convicted for a long sentence for this kind of crime. But at the same time, the minister of justice didn't think that it was fundamental to anonymize the name of the girl, because she was the victim of the crime, and we call it re-victimization. So you are victimized twice, the first time when you receive the crime, and the second time when it's online, because a person can read this kind of information for all the time. So these Italian guys decided not to marry this girl, that was the sad story, and then she came to me and then we solved the problem, we anonymized this information. But at the same time, the damage was done, it's been done, because she said, I cannot tell to my boyfriend things like this, and at the same time, the boyfriend, who want to know, he said, you had to tell me this kind of information, you cannot avoid to hide this kind of information to me, that's why they decided not to marry. But this is privacy, in a special sense. So it's something that in a certain sense, the proposal was absolutely normal, the publication of the judgment is something that is also good, because you want transparency, you want to know, and totally in favor of the fact that we can read free all the judgment, if you want, because we needed to know this information, but at the same time, there is an important and huge risk of the victim of the crime. So the Romanian minister of justice, after this case, decided to anonymize all the victims of the crime. It was a really simple decision, but at the same time, they didn't do it, also because they didn't think, or because they had something other things to do. But this is again privacy, so that's why it's important to protect information, because you never know, in this case, you can imagine. But there are more complicated cases, one of the professors in Stanford, for example, she was appointed in Stanford, or another big university in the United States, and three or four years before, she had this birthday with her friends, and she was really drunk, and she published all the photos on Facebook, and the university decided not to appoint her because of this photo. So this is something that is, again, a stupid case, but it can indicate you about the importance to protect personal or special categories of data. I made a question for you. The image of you in a party, sorry, where you are drunk, is personal and common data, or is it special categories of data for you? A person drunk, basically, is an image of a person drunk. Is it personal or special categories of data? It's even deeper than personal data. It feels like it goes with... It's a good answer. I like you. Just to improve for the exam, the idea to explain your answer. Sometimes it could be, I don't want to make any tricky answer, don't worry about that, but the idea of privacy is to motivate, even if this is accountability, we will learn in the next lecture, but to motivate your answer, because it's not so clear. I want to give you my answer, but I don't know if it's a good answer. My idea is a drunk person, it could be an health data or not. Because if we think that as an health data, I think that we have... If we go on this direction, that a drunk person is an health data, we can start to become crazy, because for example, now I can see a lot of health data. What is in front of me that is an health data, immediately, for you. Any person that has glass for me has an health data, so I have information about you because you have glass. Sorry, glass anyway. Because it's an health data. For me, it makes me crazy, because there is a totally different processing and rule when you have a sensitive data. In my view, a sensitive data, a special category of data, is something that should be, in a certain sense, hide. I have an important disease, but it's not really immediate. This is information that I have to hide, but the fact that I don't see very well and I use an instrument is absolutely present and you can see it's a part of your body, in a certain sense. It's something that is not for me, a special category of data. But it's a discussion, so if you want to protect this information, you can say this is a personal data. And strictly, I could say that also a drunk person could be, in a certain sense, an health data. This is just to help you to understand how is different this situation. I have to. Sabham and Scarlett case. Another case coming back then. Now we will see two cases regarding the IP addresses and the fact that the IP addresses is a personal data. When we talk about IP addresses, if you remember the last lecture, I explained to you that I disagree that IP address is a personal data, but you have to remember that IP address is a personal data. Why? Because it could indirectly identify a person. I imagine that everybody of you has a notion of IP address. We will discuss about the fact that why for me it may be crazy because the IP address could give you an information about who is your network provider. In Italy, for example, Poda, PodNet team and whatever. But then it's not a one-in-one network provider. Or you know the potential geolocation because the IP address can give you also this general information about your potential location. We are talking about dynamic IP address, obviously not static IP address. Clear for you static and dynamic? Okay. Then you need to have this information from a telco, so it's a telecommunication network provider, and it's not so simple to obtain this information. In Europe we have the article 132 that gives you the opportunity to ask this information only with an order of a judicial authority and only if there is a crime. I can ask you about who is connected in this moment in a certain point of Italy just if I have an order of judicial authority. But in every part of Europe, apart from Italy, the Constitutional Court of all these member states decided that it's not constitutional to have this information. So for example, in Germany, in Ireland, in Lithuania, you have a specific decision and I think that now we are more than 15 countries that decided that this information is not possible to ask. You cannot ask to the telco this information. And why we have made this decision? Because, and I don't know if you agree or you disagree, but this is the fact that we don't want as European member states, not all the European member states, for example, in Italy, as this kind of rule, we don't want to monitor what you do online. Because when you have this law, this is important, guys, when you have this law, I can in Italy monitor every single activity that you do now. So if I want, what is your name? Leo. If I want to know what is the website that you now as a visitor, I can have this kind of information. Obviously, I cannot go to the telco and ask, please give me this information of Leo. I have to go to the judicial authority. But the judicial authority can know in every single moment what is the activity online made by Leo. For the five years before, so if I want to know what Leo visited four years ago, I can have this kind of information. And this is just, just in Italy, in Germany, in Romania, in Ireland, I don't remember in France, a lot of countries, and if you are interested, I can give you the exit list. They decided that this is not correct. So if you go, Leo, even in Germany, you can do whatever you want online and you will not be monitored. But in Italy, you could be monitored. If you go to an Italian connection, obviously, if you use a German connection, for example, you cannot be monitored. Do you understand what I mean? Okay. So we are discussing about something that is monitor your online activity. Why, just for your curiosity, we have this law in Italy, because we are in Italy, so perhaps you are curious now why we have this law, because there is the Anti-Terrorism Act that gives us this kind of opportunity. It is a decision of the Italian government. You can agree or disagree, personally disagree, but this is what we have now and we need to know. What happened in the Scarlett-Sabon case? It is a leading case and there was a systematic analysis of all content and the collection and the verification of users, IP address from which unlawful content on the network is sent. Those addresses are protected personal data because they allow those users to be precisely identified. So this company that was an association of music and media company decided to start a serious and deep monitoring of all the persons that download content protected by IP law. So for example, now it is quite difficult. You have to figure out that this case was 2010 and was started in 2004, 2005 and 2005 in the Belgium country and then goes to the European Court of Justice. You don't know what happened in 2004, 2005, but we had a lot of B2P network where you can download illegally a movie and music. Now it is quite useful because you have Netflix and you have Amazon and you have Spotify and whatever. So you don't download, perhaps you don't download the RIP, I don't know. Normal is not so common to download, but my generation, when I was young like you, all my generation downloaded a lot of content illegally, we say in infringement obviously, on IP law. So now it could happen just if you want specific content, but if you want mainstream content, it makes more sense to have streaming. Perhaps, I don't know. It's a question for you. I am not you. But anyway, what they start to do? They start to monitor all these kinds of IP address and the European Court of Justice decided that this kind of activity was in violation of the fundamental right because you cannot monitor the IP address of the person that made, even in legal activity. Yes, you can try to make some legal action against this person, but not with this massive monitor, massive surveillance of all the guys. Do you have any questions? Why doesn't apply to terrorism act? No, why doesn't apply to terrorism act, but is connected to the sum, the decision or not? Yes, sir. Okay, so I try to understand, I try to see if I understand. Sorry for my fault because sometimes I don't understand English. The point for me is there is a difference between, so what is, the idea, I mean if I write is correct. What you say is they have to collect this information for terrorism, but at the end they use this information for other crime. Okay, it's a wonderful question. To be precise, the data retention directive, this is not for the exam, but just to answer the question of Leo, the data retention directive that is the directive, if you want to explore it, 24, number 24 of 2006, not for the exam, but just for you if you want to explore this case, talk about CAU's kind, so you can make this kind of collection for the European citizen, this was the directive, for all the serious crimes. This is what happened in 2006. Then all the single member states say, we don't want this directive, we don't know, we don't want the application of this directive, because all this directive was applied in the county member and they declare it in prostitution, in Italy or other country, because I think that in France is already in place. They decide that serious crime is IP violation, so not only anti-terrorism act. Then why we mention, I mentioned the terrorism act, the complex situation, is that the directive said that you can keep this information just for one year, but they say, I want to extend this system and they use the anti-terrorism act, and in this sense you are completely right, because they keep this information for five years, even if the law, the principle law says just one year, but they use this tool to keep the information for five years. Please, I understand that perhaps for you it's not so, it's a really tricky issue, legal issue, and again, don't worry for the exam, because it's something that I don't ask for the exam, but it's important for you, because I can go. At the end of the last lecture we were mentioned, the way back machine, how many of you knows the way back machine? You take the other two, no? No, okay, how do you do? Okay, yes. If you don't use way back machine, interestingly you can try, way back machine is another tool made by some university, I think the same of the other, so Berkeley and Stanford and whatever, and they start to have the memory of all the content that was produced online since 1998, something like that. So we have 23 years of all the web present in the way back machine, so if you go to the web machine, you can do also now, you can decide that how it was my preferred website of my country in 2005 or in 2007, and what was the main news in 2010. So this is wonderful in a certain sense, could be really helpful for the judicial activity, even if I have to tell you the truth. It's not so easy because it's not all the website, it's not all the information you can check, it's not so precise as you can imagine, but you have this information, you have this information, and this is coming back to the big question, it's we have the right to be forgotten, again, we have the right to be forgotten or not. If not, we will have more security, we will have more safety, because if I can know what Leo visited four years ago, it's wonderful information that I can have regarding the life of Leo, but it's also, in my view, a violation of privacy of Leo, and the same also for the website, because there could be, in this case, it's a public history, it's not the same, we are not talking about privacy or privacy because it's more, again, it's a public information, but in a certain sense it's the same, what we want to do, we want to live in a situation where we have more surveillance and also safety, or we want to leave a free person to do what they want and also to make some mistakes, because perhaps everybody of us made mistakes, especially online, that has made a lot of mistakes, and in a situation of this, we have the possibility to memorize this mistake and use this mistake forever. So, I hope that I answered your question, Leo. Please. It's correct, but you don't have to make confusion, because there is a lot of public information that are special categories of data, and you cannot say, you have anyway the idea that even if they are public, they could be special categories, because, for example, I have this information, I draw some image of our body in a certain situation that could be used in a certain context, but they can also use it in another context, and then we can discuss about fake activity, but this is another point, I don't want to make it too much complex, but anyway, what is on, I understand what you say, it's something that is public, and so it's not a special category of data. Do you see this? I understand your point of view, but it's not correct. Please, we have to protect these special categories of data, because everybody of us could have a problem. I have founded an association that is called Permesso Negato, it's an Italian name, and this association helps a lot of victims of some kinds, especially girls, but also boys, that send some personal images of a body, a naked body, for example, to his boyfriends or girlfriends, and then this information is published by the man on the world after the relation with these boys or girls. In a certain sense, it's not a ransom, it's just because there is no more relation, sometimes it happens just to joke, to send this information, that is really sensitive information. This information becomes public, because you start with, for example, what happened? You see the normal situation. I have a relation with a girl, I send my photos, and she sends my photos, at the end of the relation, I want to say, she left me, so I want to make something against her, and then I publish this photo in WhatsApp, normally it's a telegram group, and then from this telegram group, it happens that it goes in another group, and then this information can immediately go on the website, on a specific website, and then not the porn channel, because this is not, but there are some web and public websites where there is a lot of images of this girl or this boy, and normally the girls are the person that are more interested in this kind of market, so what we have done, we have made an agreement with Facebook, with Meta, and when you exchange this kind of photo, you can prevent the fact that this photo is uploaded. What happens is that the victim of the crime, because this is a crime, asks for this association to send to this association a photos, we transform the photo in an Ash file, and then perhaps you know what is an Ash file, then we, okay, and then we have an agreement with Facebook, and then Facebook, when you try to upload this photo on WhatsApp, or Messenger, or Instagram, or Facebook, or whatever, they immediately, they cannot send this photo, so this is my proposal for association. It does not make any sense, because we have an agreement with Meta, so they normally use telegram, and we do not have an agreement with telegram, so it would be helpful, but just for a channel, so the person that wants to do this, they can use another channel, it would be an idea, just to prevent, just to give an idea to this person that they cannot do this kind of activity. This example is to explain to you that for me, you cannot know, yes, the example of the drunk person, it's different because she decided to publish this photo, but you never know what is online and why is online, so I think that we need, we cannot say if it is online, it should not be a special category, because it's online, because it depends on what is the situation, especially now, we have a lot, a lot, a lot of cases, we have more than in Italy, we have more than 70, 80 cases a month, and we have just a little association. Just to imagine how many girls and boys have this kind of problem, and we need to take care of this, because it could compromise your health, and especially mental health, because it's something that compromise your life, in a certain sense. Okay, then I come back to the other point at the end of the lecture, I remember your question, but now we are a little bit longer, respect rather than your question. I hope that I find a way to answer the other question. Then we have this case, Breyer versus Germany. Basically, it appears that the online media service provider has the means which may likely reasonably, usually in order to identify the data subject with the assistance of other persons, namely the competent authority and the internet service provider on the basis of the IP addresses stored. So, this is the Breyer case, it's another leading case, similar to the Samam case, but in this situation, the European Court of Justice specifically explained the fact that you can go to the competent authority with an internet service provider to obtain this information, the IP addresses stored. So, this is another important case. What is important in this case? The fact that for the first time, we start to see what is anonymous and what is not anonymous. For example, a lot of information that are present online, a fashion recognition system, smart device, smart seating, broad notion and new technology. So, it's something that we needed to go to the recital 26 of the GDPR to determine what a natural person is identifiable, accounts should be taken of all the means reasonably likely to be used, such as singling out either by the controller or by another person to identify the natural person directly or indirectly. To ascertain what the means are reasonably likely to be used to identify the natural person, accounts should be taken of all objective factors such as the cost and the amount of time required for identification, taking into consideration the available technology at the time of the processor and the technological developments. Why is it important to recital 26? Because Breyer says, ok, we need to give information about what are identifiable or what are not identifiable. Because what is anonymous and what is not anonymous. And IP address is not anonymous because it could be indirectly used to identify a person. At the end of the last lecture, someone of you tell me about the geolocation and the fact that, for example, I can have an IP address and the IP address is something that cannot happen but just to give an example, can identify because in that area there are no persons, it's a sort of desertical place where you know that there is just one person that has an interconnection. So in that specific case, that is quite crazy and not probable, but it's not just to, I can identify this person. So the problem of the Breyer, the problem of the Saban, these two cases, is that we can at a certain point identify a person. And these two cases, Breyer and Saban, was connected to the IP address. Now we have to see another possibility, the possibility to identify a person with other tools. And the next future it could be more and more and more simple to identify a person. For example, in this case, totally for me, I cannot pronounce this case, but the problem is that you have to remember just the fact that this person installed a camera system on his family home, which recorded the entrance to his home, the public footpath and the entrance to the house opposite his home. The dispute in question is whether the operation of the home camera system, which records people for proposing to protect the property, but monitors a public space, is going to process personal data. The court held that the image of a person recorded by a camera system constitutes personal data in as much as it's possible to identify a person. So the point is, this is a personal data, even if this camera has no facial recognition system, but at the same time, there is some person that passes through the public space, the path, the street, and this camera can make a photo, I can have a photo of them, and that's why these kinds of images are personal data. So this is an example of personal data. Non-personal data, it's different. In the regulation, obviously on a framework for the free flow of non-personal data, there is a specific regulation, that is the regulation 108-07 of 2018. This is a life of information that is wonderful for the exam, it's something that I will not ask for the exam, but if you understand this, you can understand how it's important, because you have a regulation that is for the personal data, that is the 679 of 2006, that is the GDPR for the personal data. But there is another regulation, the 1807, for the data that are not personal. This means that when you are trying to make a distinction between personal and non-personal data, you will have a real situation, a real change of the mentality, because when you are in the scenario of the personal data, you have a lot of rules, a lot of legal basis, we will see in the next lecture, so we will see how many important things to try to say that information is not a personal data information. Especially in your professional activity, in the next future, when you work in a company or you found a startup or whatever, you will try, you need to avoid personal data, because any time that you process personal data, you take a risk. Anybody of you knows about synthetic data? Okay, synthetic data, it's another category, it's important to know if you are interested in this situation that is really important for your next future, because you have personal data, you have non-personal data that basically are anonymous data, and what is the difference between the personal data and the anonymous data? The personal data is very rich of information, I know a lot about you, I know again. Name, address, phone, bank credit, email address, IP address, cookies, online, a lot of information, so if I have all this information, I'm really rich, you know that the new petrol is data, so I have a lot of information, I can sell, please, don't write this because it's illegal, you cannot sell personal data, but in a certain sense we live in a society where everybody of the big company sells everyday our data, if you like Google, I would say, Google is free, I know that you know that Google is not free, they use our personal data, so we are in a situation where these information are really golden, are petrol. When you go to the anonymous data, you start to avoid all this information, anonymize, so you cannot know the name, you cannot know the address, you cannot know the phone, the email address, the activity, because if any kind of single information could indirectly identify the person, so it would be personal data, so when you have to anonymize the person, you lose all this benefit, you lose all this benefit. Why the future is on synthetic data? This is not written, this is not a question of the exam, but it's important for you. The future is on the synthetic data because through a process, a mathematical process, don't ask me how it works in this process, please, they can transform this personal data in something that is not anonymous, but with a mathematical formula, they can assure that it's not possible to reconstruct all the information. So, for Google, it's not important to know something about Giuseppe Maciago, they don't need my name and last name, they just need to know that some person in the north area of Italy has this kind of interest, so they need a sort of aggregated data, in a situation where the quality of data is really good. With the synthetic data, you can transform this data in the sense that you don't have to comply with the GDPR, you don't have to comply with the privacy, because I cannot undirectly identify the person, so I can use this data, I can sell this data because now I can say freely that I can sell this data, in the GDPR jurisdiction, they don't have to respect the privacy, but the quality of data is completely different rather than anonymous data, you understand what I mean? So, this is just an information for you if you are interested, because if you have any kind of project, any kind of startup, if you want to use data for your activity, basically your life changes completely if your data are personal or anonymous. I strongly suggest you, if you want to make any kind of research, to use anonymous data, but when you use anonymous data, you don't have good quality of data, so that's why it's important to use synthetic data, because it's a middle way between anonymous and personal, but you don't have to comply with the GDPR. For the lecture today, it's important to remember the difference between personal and anonymous, okay? Synthetic is something just for you, it's an information if you are interested. So, we were discussing about the case of non-personal data, then we can see the definition of anonymous data. Again, the recitals, 26. The principles of data protection should therefore not apply to anonymous information, namely information which does not relate to an identifier, or identifiable natural person, or to personal data, branded anonymous, in such a manner that the data subject is not or no longer identifiable. And this is the article 29, the collection working pattern regarding the anonymization techniques, and the anonymization techniques are something that make me crazy, are really, really complex, because especially in Europe, we have this need to be sure, 100%, that you are not able to identify the person. That's why the synthetic data, it's a real revolution in my view, because it's a situation where you can apply this kind of anonymization techniques with a mathematical formula in a really simple way, and it's not so cost-effective, and then you have a quality of information that are absolutely good. But anyway, the definition of anonymous data is important, and it's important to make a comparison between personal data and anonymous data. So, last slide for today. So, let me know you perspective, technical standards for anonymization, contextual analysis, anonymous information versus anonymized data, legal basis for data processing, reasonable cost, amount of time required for identification, technology available at the time of the procedure, technology development, assessment of the risk of identification, then obviously encrypted data, and I think that's the key. So, basically, these are the prescript, these are technical standards, where you have anonymous information, obviously, there should be a situation where you can, because any kind of information that are anonymized could be retrieved when you anonymize the person. For example, if you encrypt data, and you throw the password, obviously, in one million here, and probably with a lot of luck, you can obtain this information, but this is not reasonable. So, if you use a good encryption algorithm, you're reasonable, sure that this information is anonymous, okay? But if you use, for example, a bad encryption algorithm, you could have a not, you could have reasonable possibility to re-identify the person. So, this is the complexity of the anonymization. And then, there is also the problem when we talk about the anonymization. This incredible work that could be the real problem of the next future is technology available at the time of the processing. So, we are not in the quantum area, or era, sorry, so we don't know, I don't know if you're able to know what will happen with quantum computing, and what are the next future of the computability. So, for the time being, we think that certain techniques are good to protect data, but what's happening in the next five years? So, the fact and the tricky issue when you work within the anonymization sector, if you want to earn a lot of money, guys, you can start to work in this sector, because this is a sector where all the company wants to have an expert. But the tricky issue is that now there is some technology that gives you the certainty of anonymization. But in the next five years, everything is changed, so all the data that you have encrypted, for example, in a certain technique, should be encrypted again, or should be protected in another way. So, sometimes what happens then when you discuss this kind of issue in a company, at the end of the day, this kind of key person, the CEO of a company says, okay, guys, I understood, I will delete the data, I will not anonymize the data, because it's too risky, it's too complex in the organization. But at the same time, it's a great opportunity, because, again, a bonus of interest, we can keep all of our information for the rest of our life, and we will have also a problem of storage, as you know, but anyway, it's an opportunity that we have worldwide to decide this, or we can start to anonymize this information or delete this information. And I don't know if this kind of, what will be the best scenario, what will be the right way to proceed, but this is the question that we will need to pose in the next 20, 30 years, because we never had, we never had all this information, all this digital information about us in our life, so it's a decision that you have to make in the next future. Keep this information as a personal data, transform this information and anonymize this data, or transform the information in a synthetic data, again, synthetic data, remember this word, even if it's not for the exam. And the third possibility is to delete data. When you delete data, you should be aware that this information is not more present in the world, so you can compromise our story with the deletion, but at the same time, it could be a wonderful opportunity to delete, because you can create a situation where you have some protection of fundamental rights, again, privacy. So, I want to finish, because then we have the main principle, just to give you this slide and then we'll come back the next week, because tomorrow we will talk about accountability, and accountability principle is something that we need to explore in a specific lecture, but I want to close this lecture with this principle. So, we come back again to this principle. The first is lawfulness, fairness and transparency. Personal data should be processed lawfully, thoroughly, and in a transparent manner in relation to the data subject. Then we have proposed imitation. Personal data should be collected for specified, explicit and legitimated proposals for the processing for archiving proposals in the public interest. Scientific or historical research proposals or statistical proposals shall not be considered to incompatible with the initial proposal. So, what is the proposed imitation? Obviously, you can keep this information for a search, you can keep this information for public interest, for story, but at the same time, you cannot change the initial proposals. Therefore, I keep all the information of a lot of women for a certain proposal. Then I use this information to discriminate this kind of woman. So, this is what is really important. The fact that there is a proposed imitation, you can process data but you cannot change this kind of processing after a certain period of time. Then another principle is the data organization. Personal data should be adequate, relevant, and limited to what is necessary in relation to the proposals for which are they processed. The accuracy is important. The information should be accurate, accurate, because it's important to use this information also in the future. When is accurate this information? When explain exactly what is the situation of personal data or physical person? For example, I had a trial and then I was convicted in the first instance, but then I was acquitted in the second trial. If the information is not accurate, everybody of you knows about my conviction and not about my acquittal. It's important to keep and protect this kind of data in an accurate way. In storage limitation, personal data should be kept in a form which permits identification of data subject for no longer than is necessary for the proposals for which the personal data are processed and may be stored for long periods solely for acumen proposals in the public interest. This is specific for historical or statistical proposals. And then the last but not least principle is integrity and confidentiality. So security. Personal data should be processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal data including protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing and against accidental loss, destruction or damage using appropriate technical or organizational measures. So, in this case, we will come back to this slide tomorrow. But in every situation, because these are the old principles that we always remember when we talk about our files. Just to give you an help for the exam. Okay, I will allow you to forget some. It's important, guys, to use this principle because when you have a present and you don't know the answer, okay, because it's something that you remember or something like that, you use this principle and you try to see if you can apply one of these principles for the answer. So, you can say you're planning the next question. So that's why it's important to use this principle. It's not that I will not ask what is the principle of data visualization. But when we talk about data breach, you can use data visualization. Okay, so, short recap and then I will give you a final small for your break and for your part. The recap is a personal data definition. So, okay, article 4 is important. You can learn by heart, but how important is how to be a parent or a directly individual person? Then, it's important to make a distinction between common and special categories of data. For each one, personal data, and special categories of data. I hope that you understood the difference between special and personal. Then, I mentioned the example of such a location that you did an idea or a case and said that you use it to explain the special categories of data. And what happened is that the reason that it's not always clear, or I can explain the height of this case, sub-um, first with standard and then with standard. This case is not important that you remember the video question because it's easy. If you just review, it's important to remember that I, the address is not the type of undirectly identified person. And how, with the cooperation of the, and the cooperation of the people comes from the judicial authority. Then, the person of data recognition, the recycle, come to see it, said, here, and here, is the reason we have to find a side of the secret. So, remember the recycle, take a see it, said. It's also useful to the case of cameras, even of the surrounding, and how to be a parent or just an example to review that any kind of information, also an image that passes through the screen, could be the person. And then, the personal data, and the prosecution, it's not important that you know all this information, but the fact that, when you talk about what is around this data, you have an organization that you accept, so you have a opinion. It's not important to remember the number, certainly there, but yeah, there is an opinion that explains how, what are the, the secret, the technical standards of the organization. I don't want you to, you know, I'm also, because this side is not there, just a little part of complexity of the organization, but just to know if there are some, except you guarantee that certain data is unaligned. Okay? There's been a while. Okay. You are, you are, but I don't know if there's not a conflict. There is a question for, for you, but definitely not for the conflict. So, if you want to say, if you have a problem with the problem, then we can discuss more of it later on. Okay? And then, speak the conflict.