 We are ready. So today we have not four hours but something like four hours. I'm literally cold. It would be a longer long day. Anyway, we can start. Just some up of what we said yesterday. Basically we talk about these important slides because they give you the right. We have to remember the individual rights that are fundamental in the GDPR. And then we discuss about some cases. One of the most important cases was caffeine amelia cases. Not because it was important caffeine amelia but because of Max Kranz. I hope that you have been able to Google it yesterday. And you have to Google it also, Google him in the next page. Then we discuss about other important cases but not so relevant. At the end I briefly discussed about this case study that was in Muni. It was the contact tracing app that we had in Italy. But basically the Muni case was important because there was this distinction between the pseudonymized data and anonymized data. Now we have the first part of the lecture of the class that will be more concentrated on the GDPR task. It's not so amazing. I have some case study just to help you for the comprehension. Again, like I told you last week, there are some things that could be useful for you just to understand the GDPR, how it works in practice in GDPR. How can you be inclined if you want to, for example, make a startup and then ignore this kind of information. Obviously for the exam and for what we say, general purpose of the data ethics and data protection lecture is not so connected. But it's an important part of the course because my part was obviously to present you the GDPR from a concrete way. So I can describe you the case study but I will explain how it works in practice. How the company, how data controller apply this kind of stuff. We can start with this four points that is basically the most important rule that is analyze what you collect and where. Check if the time you store personal data is relevant. Inform your client how they can modify or delete the data and monitor who has access to personal data. So this four important rule are basically the fundamental rule of the GDPR because the first is the processing activity register. Then there is the data retention disposal policy and this is really important. I repeat since the beginning, remember that less data you have, less risk you have because if you delete data, you don't have any kind of risk and you will see in the last class or when we discuss about the work we discuss about data breach. Then it's important to inform your clients. So the privacy policy, I know that the privacy policy is something that may cause crazy because nobody of us and nobody of us who are able to read the privacy policy. There is an interesting speech made by the talent data protection authority and in this speech it explains that when you wake up in the morning and you have for example an Apple watch and then you have Alexa near to you and then perhaps you have a smart fridge. This is a scenario that is not so possible to have these three devices when you wake up. This is true. The privacy policy of Apple, Amazon and Samsung for the fridge are basically you need 32 minutes to read all these three documents. So just to give you an example, in a perfect scenario you have to wake up and then you have to read the 12 minutes, the privacy policy of Alexa, Amazon then you have to take 10 minutes to read all the privacy policy of Apple and then you need also 10 minutes to read the privacy policy of the Samsung fridge. So if you want to use these devices in a theoretical way, you have to read all these information. So you can understand that it's quite impossible because every day we install an app and we don't have the time to read all this information. That's why it's something that is important but when we say inform, we mean inform a person, a physical person, the data subject, we also have to use another important piece in it that is now installed in Stanford in the United States that is legal design, what is legal design? Legal design is the way to create a legal information in a way that is comprehensive for a person that is not a legal person. You need to avoid dark patterns. You know what is dark patterns? Anybody of you knows what is dark patterns? We show you a video that explains you what is a dark pattern. You have to understand absolutely what is a dark pattern because we live in a dark pattern world. So basically it's important that you have this third pillar that is the privacy policy but not the privacy policy that we have now that is a wall of text and you are not able to understand and also you don't have the time to read all this information but we need to change the approach. But this is a very important thing. And then obviously we need to monitor who has access to data. Data protection means protection of data. So you have to work on this direction to help the user, help the data subject to protect it. This is an example of what is a processing activity system. So when we talk about analyze what you collect, this is just an example. You can use a lot of format. This for me is interesting as the mill that is the data protection of French and you have the business market. The name of the business process, the owner process, the functional description of processing, the purpose of processing, the basis for processing, the type of processing, data in data subject used, data subject categories, storage, retention period is important, disposal, how can you delete this kind of data, original source, third party, name, data transfer, technology description, in the comments. So you have to fill this form for any single data processing activity before to comply with GDPR. So this is a certain sense of mess but it's important because when you do this kind of exercise you start to understand how much data you have and how can you manage this data. It's really difficult to complete this register, especially if you fill all of this information. But when you have finished it, you have a clear scenario of what is your data, your company, your identity. So basically the game is analyze what you collect and where. Then you have obviously a task distribution and you have some players that are really, really important. And then you have data controller, data processor, joint controller, data protection officer, and all these players should distribute different tasks, each other. Data subject, who is data subject? It's important to know this definition because I repeat every time since the beginning. For me it's normal to have this kind of distinction but perhaps for you it's not the same. So remember that data subject is an individual person resident in European Union and subject of personal data. It could be also in the subject a physical person that is not a European Union citizen. That's why it's important to remember that it is a resident in the European Union. So also a simple domain size, also you that are not, some of you are not from you, but in this moment your domain size is in Europe. So the members, the enemy member states should respect the GDPR for any person, even if it's not a European citizen. The data controller is an institution, business or person that possess personal data, for example in commerce, website or whatever, any legal entity. And then we have data protection officer. This is the most tricky figure that was, has been introduced in the, with the GDPR. The DPO is a person appointed by the data controller that is responsible for overseeing data protection practices. So basically you have this person that is involved to monitor, to help the data controller to monitor the data processing activity. Every single day I was in call when I ran here with a person that is not so expert about data protection and he told me that he wants to see if I want to participate in a tender where there is the possibility to manage 87 companies as a data protection officer. And I explained to this woman that basically it's impossible to be a data protection officer of 87 different legal entities, even if you are in a group because you need to have a lot of personal work on this kind of stuff. What is important to understand is that there is no idea of how complex is data processing, how complex is managing data. That's why it's important to create a culture of data protection because in the next future everything passes through data and digital data. So it's not a function that you say okay but it's just a role so I say that you are DPO and then you don't have to do anything because there is a lot of activity and it's impossible for every physical person or also for a legal entity to manage 87 other different legal entities unless you are for example a big four or an important and enormous company. But this is just to make an example of how is complex the data protection officer activity. And then there is the data processor. We have already seen this kind of subject that could be a company, an institution that process data on behalf of the control. So this is the classical example of Google, Facebook, whatever. But you don't have to think only about the data processor like Google because there is a lot of other data processors and data processor for example if you give me your letter and then I have to just bring a letter from one place to another place I transport data. Why I make this example of the letter? Because also data protection always thinks that it's also connected to data but it's also connected with data also in a physical way, not only in a digital way. So data processor is the subject that process data on the alpha of the controller. And then at the very end there is the data authority, the data protection authority that is publicly institutional monitoring the implementation of regulation in the specific EU member company. Then again these three distinctions, data controller, data processor, joint controller. Well, data controller determines the three purposes for which and the means by which personal data is processed. So basically the data controller has the power to decide for what reason and for what purposes the personal data is processed. So for example if your company organization decides why and how personal data should be processed, the processor is the data controller. Again the same definition just that it's important. The data processor is the net or legal person of the electronic agency which processes personal data on the alpha of the controller. So the controller decides the data processor actually. And then there is the joint controller when two or more data controller, the jointly decides why and how the processor, personal data are collectively known as joint controller. Joint controller relationship arises more commonly than many people realize. So there is a lot of situations where more data controller works together to become joint controller. So data subject, data controller, the data protection officer, data processor, data authority. And then again we as the core data controller, data processor, joint controller. Remember this point. When we go to the data processor, the decision making power of the data processing is the criterion for distinguishing between controller and processor. Different level of control over data processing and different accountability of the quality of the data processor. The data processor must provide sufficient guarantees to implement that great technical and organizational measure in such a manner that processing will meet the requirement of the GDPR. So there are controller relationship between controller and processor, the article 28, that regarding the subject matter, the natural purposes of the processing, the type of personal data and the obligation and right of the controller. Why it's important to finish the data processor? Because in any single problem that we normally have in data protection, the role of the data processor is crucial. Normally any data breach is committed by the data processor. So it's important that you choose the right data processor. Because normally when you are a data controller, the most important thing is to save cost. So in every single day when you go in the supermarket and you want to buy a beer or a coke, you try to find the best price normally. This is the first option that you try to find. But you also have to see the quality. When you buy a coke basically you have a certain guarantee of the coke. But when you ask a person to manage your data, it's not like coke. When you talk about ADAPUS, we could agree or disagree, but ADAPUS is standard like coke, like a certain kind of beer of quality. And then you can have sufficient guarantees because it's a service that is absolutely well known and has absolutely sufficient guarantees. But at the same time when you start to use other suppliers, you have to check if these suppliers provide sufficient guarantees for the data processing. So what is the main problem that we have in practical sense, and this is a case that happens in Italy, but that happens around the world in every single situation. The lack of data processing agreements. Because between the data controller and the data processor, so these two figures, there should be also always a data processing agreement. It is an agreement where you can define what are the tasks of the data processor. So it's a contractual agreement, a contract between these two persons. And normally there is a contract between the first and second entity, but not a DPA, a data processing agreement. It is an addendum, something that you have to add to the contract. And in this case, GSG, who was the data controller, was in a contractual relation with the processor, Verizon, who provided geolocation devices. The controller installed these devices to track the vehicle delivering goods on its behalf. These vehicles were not directly owned by the controller, but rather by a third company, which the controller outsourced certain devices. The data subject was a driver employed by this third company, and he had no direct contractual relationship with the controller. No controller to assess the agreement existed between GSG and Verizon. And the Italian DPA fined GSG for 5,000 euros. So basically it's important to understand that you should have absolutely an obligation to contract on the basis of Article 28 of the DPA, to have this information, which is important. It's important in the fact that you should know that there should be a contract. Why? Because you need to know in advance what are the potential sufficient guarantees, again, if you see here. The provider must provide sufficient guarantees to appropriate technical and organizational measures. If you have a contract and there's a data processing agreement, so it's connected with the data, you have a certain insurance that the provider guarantees certain kind of protection. But if you don't have this contract, you cannot demonstrate that you were accountable and you know this kind of information. And then you have the sub-processor, because the supply chain is really important. When we think of the data processor, we think just the first level. But then there is a second level that it's absolutely important that the second level is the sub-processor, because a data processor normally could use also a sub-processor. Also when we think of Amazon, we have to think that AWS has a lot of data sub-processor that are processors of the processor. This is the definition, the circumstances. And the processor, again, can engage other processors, if you are your specific or general written authorization of the controller. When you make this kind of agreement with the data controller, you have to remember that you have to list all the data processor. And if you change your data processor, you need to have written authorization of the controller. And this is really important. The same obligation is set out in the contract or other legal heads between the controller and the processor. And guarantees to implement, obviously, after the technical organization or mission. And then the initial processor remains fully liable to the controller for the performance of the sub-processor of the obligation. So it's boring, I understand, but it's important that you follow the supply chain. The supply chain is really important, because if you say, okay, my processor is a good processor, and you don't check who is the sub-processor, so the processor of the processor, perhaps the processor is really reliable, but this processor used another processor that is not reliable. So you need to check, if you are the digital controller, obviously, all the processors, not only the first one, but also the sub-processor. And then we have this case, again, lack of authorization to engage the data processor. In this case, ISWEP was provided a web application provider who has an agreement with a group of hospitals to create the application for collecting and managing employees with the blowing reports. Do you know what is with the blowing? Okay, with the blowing is the opportunity that we have now in a lot of countries, not only Europe, but United States, and I know there is also in South America. There is an obligation for this kind of, for the data controller, for the entity, to have the power to make a anonymous report to the data controller, to the legal entity. So for example, if I'm an employee and I have some problem, you see that there is my colleague who needs to cry or commits something that is not ethical, I can make a whistle blowing, so I can spread the report, and this report should be anonymous, and nobody can know who I am, but I have the opportunity to denounce, to explain to my employer that there is a crime that has been committed. Then obviously I can also say about sexual harassment or any kind of an ethical and legal activity that are committed in the company. So this is the whistle blowing rules that we have around the world. So we were discussing about this instrument, and so an instrument that contains a lot of confidential information, because in whistle blowing reports, I make reports about legal activity, non-smoking activity, and the instrument that is actually legal, and it's really important. So the sort of contract that you have for posting the whistle blowing rules, is that you didn't ask the prior determination for the controller for engaging, and did not formalize its process or sub-process or relational position, so this was explained that the object of the project, the hospital was only the provision of technological infrastructure, but anyway, the Italian authority did not create the application for the process, why? Because the processor points a new sub-processor, and the processor didn't advise the data controller, so it's important also to have this chain that should be really clear and transparent. So anyway you change your sub-processor and you are a data processor, you need to have the authorization of the data controller, because the data controller is at the top of the line. Just to anticipate one point, you see here that you have a data controller that is on the center, then you have a data subject, and then you have here a data processor. It's not complete this chart, because here you have a sub-processor, so you should have a direct relation between data controller, data processor, a sub-processor, and all these two are connected with the data controller. So we were discussing about lack of authorization of the data, the super processor, and then we discussed about joint controller, article 26. Two or more controllers jointly determine the purposes and means of processing, formal agreement between joint controllers, determine respective responsibility, and no obligation in particular as regard the exercising of the rights of the data subject and their duties to provide the information to the data subject. The data subject may exercise ease or arise under, in respect of and against each of the controllers. So I try to explain this, that would be a little bit complex, even if you read the first line, it's pretty clear. Joint controllers happen when two or more controllers jointly determine the purposes and means of processing. So for example, you have two companies that start a partnership, and they won't organize an event here in Portugal. So again, automotive company always use this example, so Audi and Mercedes decided to organize an event to give the opportunity for all the students to try the new electric car of Audi and Mercedes. So there is this opportunity. And then all the data that are collected during this event of the person that wants to try the car, and obviously if you want to try the car, you have to give the data to the company, and share it between Audi and Mercedes. And in this case, there is obviously a joint controller agreement, because they have the same proposal, they determine together jointly the same purposes. So when there are some data controllers, some legal entities that together decided to make a certain processing, they are called joint controllers. Why it's important to join controllership, in a practical sense, not for the example that I mentioned, but when you think at the bank, when you think at Google, when you think at the credit board organization, there is many, many entities. For example, Bankacella, that is a little bank here in the U.S. but is quite important for the Italian system, has more than 34, 35 legal entities. And there are a lot of services. Perhaps the Italian guys use Hype, that is one service that is jointly made by Limiti and Bankacella. They have two companies, so they have decided that these two bank, Limiti and Bankacella, to offer a service that is quite easy, is an app, to exchange money. So if you use this app, your data are viewed by Bankacella and Limiti. And then Bankacella needs also, but not because it's a bank thing, but just to give you a better service, to know that you have, for example, a bank account with Hype, but then you have also a bank account with Banka Patrimoni, that is another bank. And then if you can make a joint controller agreement, all these data could be connected and then you can offer a service that is better for the client, for the user, for the data subject. This means also for Google. When you have Google and YouTube, for example, are different companies, but all the information that are present in Google are viewed also in YouTube. So when you see a video, the information that you have put on Google could be seen also by YouTube. And this gives you a better service. Perhaps you say, ah, oh, wow, I'm controlled. And in a certain sense, you are right. When you say I'm controlled, the right word should be I'm profiled, because it's true that this kind of activity of profiling is, as would be used for economic proposal, to use your data to make money. One of the purposes of Google, but at the same time is to give you a better experience in the hub. And when you are in YouTube, it's absolutely true that all the information that you have put on Google could help you. Think when you are in a Google map, and also you have the same activity, because Google remembers a lot of information about your search and then helps you to find immediately a certain place. So there is some services that are connected. You can see in a bad way, and it's true also, and I agree with you, that is how I am profiled, they make money with my data, true. But it's also true that the joint control ship, so to put together different entities, gives the opportunity to give you a better service. That's why it's important to join controller agreement, but it's important that you know that there is a joint control agreement. It's important that the data subject from a native perspective knows very well who are the player that manages your data. So that's why it's important to have a data processing, a joint control agreement where it's absolutely clear who is the player. And then we have this Jehovah case, this is in 2017, where Jehovah Witness community collect personal data during their door-to-door activities, including names and addresses of persons unknown to them without their knowledge or their consent. Both the members of the community were involved in the activities that were made, were named, and engaged in preaching, keeping records about preachers, and distributing community publication. They were forbidden from doing so unless illegal requirements for processing were satisfied. The court had that a religious community is a controller, jointly with its member, who engage in preaching for the processing of personal data carried out by the latter in the context of door-to-door preaching organized, coordinated, and encouraged by that community. Without it being necessary that community has access to those data or to establish that community is given its members written guidelines or instruction in relation to the data processing. So I don't want to be so much complex, but the basic information is that all these legal entities, even if they are religious, the legal entity should be linked with a joint controller agreement. Then, what are the DCGP relation? I have already explained to you what are the relation. So you have the data controller in the middle, and you have data processor, sub-processor, and then you have potentially another controller in this scenario. So if you have two controllers, there is a joint controllership agreement, and they are joint controllers. And at the very end, we need to help data subjects. We need to protect data subjects that are really, really important. This is a principle, really important accountability. And then I already mentioned about this principle. Now it's a little bit better explained as I explained to you in the last lecture. But it was really important to remember that accountability is the way to demonstrate the fact that you are being complied with the data protection law. Mutate genera principle, the obligation of the data controller, the security measure, and risk management. That means reporting obligation, data breach, business continuity, disaster recovery, data protection, impact assessment, current counter, certification, ANSI, and a lot of stuff. We obviously not go in detail of all these kind of activity. And then we have the data protection strategy. Mapping data flows and processing activity, mapping task distribution, assessing potential risk, defining procedural and technical measures, increase accountability, define a data protection strategy, identify weaknesses and priorities, and then you should have a data protection officer and a team of experts. I don't want to go obviously in detail of this because again, I already, the important issues are here. That is this part. Remember this 4p line. Analyze what you collected where. Check if the time you store personal data is relevant. If not, remove data retention in the schools, inform your client, privacy policy, and monitor who has access to personal data. These are the 4p lines. Obviously, if you want to implement these 4p lines, you have to go also through this general principle and this strategy. But anyway, it's more important to go and to analyze case by case, this information. Again, the important things for the exam is the 4p lines. Then accountability case. Energy is important to Italian energy providers, not only Italian but also international providers. The Italian authority received hundreds of reports from users who received unwanted promotional phone calls. The phone calls were often made by partner companies, not by anyone itself. Citizens reported a persistent and disturbing sense of interference in the sphere of privacy due to these practices, which are often not only invasive, but also particularly aggressive. The authority established a violation of Article 5 and 25 for not having taken effective action against a new promotional contest made in its name by exercising its duties of accountability and privacy by design. And then Article 5245 being to provide evidence of compliance with data protection legislation. This is important, the evidence of compliance, and I will come back to this point in the case of solicited promotional communication by a business partner. And then Article 5 and Article 24 for failing to control the activities of its business partners, including through appropriate technical and organizational review. Why it's important this word in these cases? Because since the first lecture, since the first class, you have seen that there is not only one answer when we talk about data protection. What is important when we discuss together, we had different things. I remember last Tuesday when we discussed about the percent and the data monetization. And if you want, if you remember the Italian girls, tell me about the fact that you in a certain sense would agree with the newspaper solution if I remember one. And you if I remember one, a different opinion. And there is no person that is right or wrong because it's something that is already based on the principle of accountability. That's why you can in a certain sense it makes crazy this situation, but I think that there is a reason why there is no only one answer. Because the technology is something that we cannot keep. We cannot have a clear clue of what will happen, a clear strategy of what will happen with technology in the next step. But also in the next minutes, we know everyone knows that the world is low, but now we are finished with the world law. We are in a situation, especially with artificial intelligence, think about the chart GPT, that it's not predictable what will happen. So how can you fix a law that tells you what is right or not? Obviously there are some principles and these principles are really important, the fact that we should protect data, personal data, special categories of data, judicial data. These are the general principles. But then when you go case by case, it's not possible to say you have to respect all these rules because the rules change over time. And the time is really, really, really brief. There is no possibility. Think about the cybersecurity issue, any fix, any bug that you have, that you make a fix, and then every single day you have other vulnerability and then you have other ways to attack a system. So we cannot say in the first, in the older, the former law of data protection, which we had one thing that was the 10 rules, I call it 10 rules about cybersecurity. That was the password should be more than eight characters with some special characters and all this stuff. I think that now it's absolutely stupid to say that the password should be just of eight characters, more than eight characters, because it's something that we cannot protect. You should have a double factor authentication measure. Then probably in the next five years, also the double factor authentication cannot be the only the right solution. We will find the other way to make a secure authentication. So how can we write a law that impose something that we know that in a couple of years cannot be the right system? So that's why there is the accountability, because we don't know how to protect data. We know now probably how to protect data, but what I say today, today, probably tomorrow is not correct. And this is the most important lesson that I want you to learn in this course. That the data ethics, again, data ethics, it's really important because if you work with ethics, you have a common language. Even if we have different culture, and we need to respect different culture to protect data. It's something that we need to underline. And then the second point is not only data ethics, it's accountability. And accountability is provide evidence of compliance. You should provide this kind of evidence. It's important because even if you make a mistake, if you explain why you make this mistake, and there is some evidence that you make a reasoning about this mistake, and at the very end that you do, you did this mistake in good faith, probably you will not be sanctioned, or the sanction should be really, really a little sanctioned. So basically this is the accountability case at the end of the day. You should provide evidence of compliance. This is what the legislator asked, and the data protection authority verified. And we say the role of the most important person in the accountability principle is the data protection officer. Because the role of the data protection officer is to be between the data controller and the data subject. And he needs to work, or he, she, needs to work with the data controller. So you have, for example, in a data breach, I am a TPO of some company, and then the data protection authority called me and asked me how the company managed this situation. And so I have to be really transparent with the data protection authority. But at the same time, my fees are paid by the data controller, so I should be also a consultant for the data controller. So it's something that perhaps for you it's difficult to understand, but this image explains very well how it's complex to be the person that is in the middle between the data protection authority and the data subject. And he has to help, or she has to help the data controller to respect the data subject rights. But at the same time, the data controller wants to use the data, and is not so, or she is not so interested to protect the data of the data subject, because any kind, any form of protection means money, because you have to spend money if you want to protect data. So that's why it's important this kind of role. The data protection officer is mandatory for public authorities or bodies, and then for co-activities consisting in processing operation, which require regular and systematic monitoring of data subject on a large scale of data. And whose co-activities consist of processing allergic scale data, of special categories of data, or personal data relating to criminal conviction on an MFNC. So the data protection officer is not compulsory. You can also decide not to have a data protection officer, but if you process special categories of data, or you do any kind of systematic monitoring of data, you should have this kind of role in your company. What are the qualities of the data protection officer? Expertise in a national and European data protection laws, and practices including in-depth understanding of the GDPR, understanding of the processing operation carried out, understanding of information, technology and data security, knowledge of the business sector and the organization, ability to promote data protection culture with the organization. So when we talk about the GDPR since the beginning, 2014 and 2015, the law was approved in 2016, then it was entering force in 2018. All the person always says that the data protection officer should be an IT, and data science. And then what happened, all the data protection officers are lawyer. This is a big, big problem that we have, and I hope that we will change in the next future this role, and you start to become a data protection officer. Why? Because it's true that in a certain sense there is a lack when you are a data scientist, that there is a lack of knowledge of law that are really important in the GDPR scenario. But it's also true that one of the most important qualities is understanding of the processing operation carried out. What happened in the normal equation? That you have a lot of piece of paper because we are lawyers, so we love to write a lot of piece of paper, and then we start to produce all this documentation regarding the activity of a company. But then when the data authorities ask to a data protection officer, okay, explain me how this company works in terms of security. And then if you ask to an attorney and say, oh yes, the company has a lot of anti-viruses. Yes, okay, I imagine that they have anti-viruses, but can you go a little bit in depth of what is the way to put in a safety situation, in a secure way the company, and then there is no knowledge about cybersecurity principle, that are fundamental in data protection. And then they say, okay, you are not prepared on cybersecurity side. Please explain me what is the core business of this activity when we talk about data. And then there is no correct answer because an attorney cannot know how data works, how is the data flow in a company. And this is fundamental if you want to protect data. Because if you want to respect the principle that I told you before, so you want to inform, for example, the user how the data is managed. You want to make a correct data retention policy, so you want to delete data. You need to know how the data works. It's not the job of a legal person, but it's the job of a more IT person. So that's why at the beginning the article 37 was a thing that has been told for not a legal person. Then happened that we have more lawyer rather than IT. My dream is to have an half and half because it's important to have a cooperation between these two different companies. Because on one side it's important the compliance, but the compliance without understanding what is the method of this data flow. It has not made any sense. It's just a piece of paper that is perfect, but it's just a theoretical rule without any kind of concrete applicability if you don't know how it works. Then another rule of the data protection officer is the independence. So provide the resources necessary to carry out data protection officer tasks and access to personal data and processing operations and to maintain ease or expert knowledge. No instruction by the data controller or data processor regarding the exercise of DPO tasks. No dismissal or penalty by the controller for the performance of DPO tasks. No conflict of interest with potential other tasks and DPO's are not personally as possible for non-compliance. So it's simple, but it's important that obviously the DPO should be absolutely independent. Then we go through some examples, some cases. So the Spanish data protection authority imposed the fine of 25,000 euros for Glovo for no compliance of its duty to appoint a data protection officer. So the defendant has restated the number to be included among the mandatory appointees, but Glovo also stated despite his fact that the internal data protection board, but the Spanish data protection authority didn't accept this obligation and therefore started the sanction procedure. Glovo stated that in 2009 it had formally appointed the data protection officer, but it had decided not to make this appointment public until 2020 because the board and the legal department of Glovo had been already developing a suspension effect. But anyway, the Spanish authority ultimately imposed the sanction of 25,000 euros. Now the sanctions are a little bit more important. In 2019, in 2020, sorry, the sanction was a little bit less for COVID reason and for the application that was just a couple of years. But the basic issue is that Glovo is obviously a company that should have a data protection officer. You know why Glovo has an obligation to have a DPO. Think at the definition. That the authority said that public authority, Glovo is a public authority. But Glovo is an activity consisting of processing on a large scale of special categories of data. Why special categories of data? Because your preferences of food could be special categories of data. Why? Because perhaps you have some allergies and this is a factor that could have an impact on your data. So we can make Glovo is able theoretically to profile all the person that has some personal disease, also religion disease, because some kind of food are specific for certain religious practices also in certain periods of time. So you can have a lot of information if you know what the people eat. So it could be a special category of data. I know that for you it's crazy, but again, I repeat that you have a lot of a kind of information. I had a direct experience of that. So Glovo, then the answer was also other case with the conservatory of music in Rome for processing and disclosing personal data found on a misplaced USP drive without the legal basis and violation of the proposals. And for opposing the DPO in a position of conflict of interest. So in this case, the DPA underlined the fact that the principal was the controller's data processor officer. So it's not possible to have the data protection officer that is the same person of the legal representative, the principal, the owner of the company. Because obviously the owner of the company cannot control himself, so there is a clear situation of conflict of interest. Then we have another case, the German Federal Data Protection Authority imposed a fine of 10,000 euro on rapid data for the no compliance of its duty to appoint a data protection officer. In Germany, a DPO should be accompanied by a company when at least 20 employees work with personal data. Indeed, in Germany there is a more strict application of the data protection law. In fact Article 37 says that when the state's national law may impose their appointing cases other than those listed under Article 37. And in Germany they decided to add more DPO because they understood that the role of DPO is absolutely important. So last slide and then we go to make a short break. Launch of Coordinating Enforcement on the Rule of Data Protection Officer. I took this information just for you but it's not important, just for your curiosity because it's really a great news. The European Data Protection Board has taken down a coordinated enforcement action through the year 26th Data Protection Authority. We take part in the sort of desistation and position of data protection officer. So that's why it's an important way that we have now to implement and to reinforce a new role. That is quite crazy role as I explained before because it's a role that is in the middle between data controller and data subject. And it's important that we have a guideline, precise guideline to explain better what is the role. So I finish this part and then we can have a break until 5.30. Thank you.