 Technology must first roll as usual. We are already question about the first part, something that is not real, something that you want to ask. Oh, was everything okay? It's okay. Now I see. So, if there are no earners, they might show we can continue. Just briefly recap what we have said. We say that there is an interplay between lower technology and the relationship between lower technology is the muplacotectectectectect. It means that the low can be used in order to shape technology, but we can also use technology in order to implement some low provisions, some required behavior that through the technology can be more, can be stronger in terms of constraints, in terms of the push to be in line in terms of behavior with what is required by the low. This was the design approach that he has also created design system that intrinsically limit time possibility as regards the use of the device that is not aligned with the legal question. And this is the so-called design approach that is used. And we have discussed about the electricity and the stations of this kind of application for the technology. And as we have done some quick behavior according to the brand, we have the all-out of the energy and the system and the system. And finally, we talked about the different kinds of approach in terms of our global top of low shaping technology. Of course, it is not necessary to start the point of low necessary. The low may vary the state, but you cannot start about an apparatus based on separation and based on cause of conduct that is quite you are relevant, meaning the field of the deprotection. So this was more or less what we discussed about the risk as one of the key elements that the technology regression has to address because new technology includes a number of risks that are created in society. So we have to face this kind of risk through two main instruments, the risk mitigation measure through the risk assessment, the risk management. And in the case in which the risk is not possible to measure and properly assess the adoption of sort of preventive approach, precautionary approach, it means that you stop to put on the market make a vulnerable move, use some specific product application to the fact that the risk is not still manageable, it does not mean that we stop the research and innovation in the field, but simply the product development is something that can be used in a real world by consumers or user in general. We can have some trials in control environments, we can continue the research in the research team and company. So this is just to work out briefly last point that we have to do in the last class. And now point that the one to rise, the fact that when we discussed about this regulation we discussed the main of course, our focus would be on the EU level, on the EU perspective, but there is not only the EU perspective. Also during the discussion we see that there is a lot of interplay between the EU, it context we can say, and other area, mainly the US, because there is a five different dialogue between UN and US, we regard that the transfer and the protection, but also other areas in which there is an increasing attention for the use of data, sometimes also based on certain ideas of civil reinities, or even Russia and China and other countries, they want to have sort of digital civil reinities with an interpretation of this notion that it's very close to the control over information and over electronic means of communication. So in this context it's very important to have a mindset that is broken during interaction between our model and other model that exists in other countries. Of course we have not the opportunity to discuss all the issues of alternative approach to the protection box we cannot apply in sign key points. And in our planning these key points we are to start with the idea that when we talk about data, when we talk about technology in general, and we already said it is not only the technology that is perceived by technologies part of society, so the society of dimension is overlapping and connected with the technology dimension. And in this regard our three elements that actually should be considered, the first one is the transnational nature of the relationship, the second one is the transcultural aspect of the relationship and the third one is the ongoing regulatory competition in the field of digital law. So if we look at the transnational dimension of the relationship concerned in the application of technology and may usage that technology, we can consider that if you look at products and digital products, convert to many other products that are needed to be shared and distributed all over the world. And of course if we did not product all over the world, it means that this rise problem of conformity with the national regulation, as we say the national regulation of 30 days, it means that in some countries some products could be commercialized only under certain specific requirements. So this transnational dimension is something that we have taken to account when we talk about the product. And one product is one, it's also product product such as copyrighted material, the data because of course there is a problem concerning or one end, the conformity to the local standard and the other end, the increasing risk that in other countries some provision that regulate and protect the material and the product that you realize can be influenced. And this is the case in some sort of the copyright that's been for a long time, the case is the copyright. So what it means, it means that the first issue related to the fact that why you want to put on the market in another country, some product, you should take into account some restriction that might exist. Or in some sort of important case, yes you go, that was the debate case, in which through evables made available some materials about the nasty and fashion materials. And these materials were made available in France and in France there is a criminal law that forbid any kind of commercialization of a nasty and fashion material. Unfortunately we have not the same idea. But in France exists and so there was the problem that this material may be available online to be very well of course available also in the French culture. And this is what we say the last time on the difficulties in combining a global network and the traditional territory based approach of the state regulation. So before Internet was no any issues because if we have a shop and we put it in the shop a sun and not these symbols or materials of course the police can track and remove them and give you attention. But online is much more difficult because if you put something on a bad, this is a valuable in France, in Germany, whatever you want. Including countries in which this is illegal. So this was the problem of the transnational dimension of the Internet. Of course now we see the limitation of this course we cannot dig in all of that issues and the way in which we can solve all of this kind of problem. So it turns out that when you make something and make the valuable line you have to consider that is a valuable different jurisdiction. And in some jurisdiction that opinion of that brother can be not allowed by the law. And this can take problems for your business and for the telephone your brother or for the family of your brother. On the opposite side we copyright infringement cases and treaties because here we have a situation in which we have almost a general protection because we don't want to copyright. I have the right international agreement at the very high level. So almost all the jurisdiction recognize copyright and there is a sort of international harmonization about the copyright regulation. So we have not a problem of a lot of differences among countries. But yes we have a problem of enforcement of this profession. What it means? It means that if you have a copyright product that is made available for instance on your website or whatever you want. The same product can be download in case of a difficult paper for instance. It can be legitimately download by a user in your country but then reuse in another platform, legal platform, making it available for free in other countries. And remember yesterday was invited to China by Chinese University. And we had a nice, interesting meeting with a Chinese business man that this brilliant idea to grab and download all the scientific paper and make their own platform in China for the Chinese audience you can see. And he didn't realize that it was not possible. He said, why not? I don't know. Maybe they were available. Okay. It's in your country's copyright protection. You know we have to ask for and make an agreement. So just to point out that it's not so gender-hurry of fact to be a data with protected material. So it might be the case and it is the case that there are platforms that are website that are really distributed protected materials without any authorization without any license. So of course in this case there is a problem of a fringe mountain. There's a clear fringe mountain of the copyright below. But what is the problem here related to the transnational dimension? The problem here is the enforcement. Because of course there is a problem that is clear that there is an infringement. But how to enforce in a country that is part of your country? You have to make a legal action. That country, so it's pricing in that of course. You have to find in that country that when we know so strong with the implementation of the focus on these kind of issues. And at the end of the day you also have to find a company or a natural person that is able to pay for the damage that they create. And sometimes you find a very small company that have no money. So of course you can stop the release of the air that is fine. But you cannot have a compensation for the damage. Of course there are strong systems for criminal infringement or intents for the child abuse or child pornography etc. It's possible through the legal provision according to the country to the criminal provision. You can stop at high level, at level of national system of yes and you cannot ask us to do the IP. But the IP that they have selected because they distribute the child pornography or other is a strong. This is a strong instrument because it's a block at level of network so you cannot have access. But of course if it's good in terms of reducing the distribution of the material. Also in this case we mentioned the problem of the legal enforcement. So if you want to punish this people, if you want to reach them and put them in jail, of course again we have a problem of all the national dimensions. So you need legal order that should be put in the country and you have to arrest them and make a trial in that country. You can't ask for trial in your country for the international appropriation on the judiciary sector. So again it's part of this. And this is a continuous struggle that is related to the fact that we have two dimensions. The national dimension, the international dimension of the network. And unfortunately the online network are more competitive and more in material we can say than other methods. Because we have also raised a global network of lights or for boots or for supply chains. But they are much more concrete we can say and it's easier to stop to some extent the flow so to regulate the flow. In international this is much more difficult. There are many solutions that permit to circumvent the gate. If you want to stop some flights you can't stop some flights coming from some camp because you act on the airport. They cannot land in the airport. But in international you cannot stop landing content in your country. Much more difficult. So this is the first aspect that we all have to take into account when we discuss about private, about the digital content and data. We could have the vast low in our country or in Europe but that is the problem of what happens outside. How we can protect our type. For this reason in the GDPR, in the proposal of AI Act, in the digital service acting many recent provision of their BN union. There is a focus on this extra territorial effect we can say. And it's more and more required by the EU to have the power to extend the application of the law. Also outside the European Union border, when there is an activity that might affect the citizen or the people that live in Europe. It's something that we will see when we discuss about the scope of the GDPR. The GDPR is applicable not only to the company or the person that are based in Europe but also when the foreign company based another country, process personnel, data affecting people that are in Europe. And this of course is an extra territorial application only by the EU law. This kind of extra territorial application again represents a derogation to the territory based approach of the state's goal. And of course create an international level, some reaction or conflict with other countries because it means that you entitled your entity in this case of the European Union to extend its power to something that is not in the EU. And that activity may affect the European Union and the people that live in Europe. Of course this essential power that we have done in another country in which these activities are not regulated. And create a certain flash between the condition idea of state territory confidence. It is accepted in some countries, it is accepted with regard for the protection for it. Of course then there are geopolitical reasons, the primary opinion marketer and the fact that there was also sort of a... You can say a sort of a precise way to approach the EU was able to convince many countries about the similar laws as regard of the possession of the so-called rational effect that maybe we mentioned this. So for the reason for the moment in the field of the protection this extra territorial approach of the EU does not create a lot of reaction on it. But of course you can not imagine that you can always have this approach and on the other hand also as a country that they can do the same. And we can ask the European providers to be compliant to the law in our countries although they are based in Europe. And of course when this is required by countries that are not so democratic oriented, it runs a lot of problem concerned. So this is a topic that I want to just outline because the rubbery is discussed in the GDBF, we are no time to dig too much from that. But is behind the entire discussion on the background we have this big problem of the cross-national dimension. Another big problem that we have not necessarily in data protection but in certain content moderation or in the discussion about that is the transcultural dimension. Transcultural dimension means that they are not only different territory than terms of regulation but they are also different cultures. And the cultural dimension is more and more relevant than what we imagine to create our own life using the suggestion by a primal philosopher. Our life it means mixing the ally and the offline life. And in this experience that connects this two dimension of course your activity transposing the online environment that can represent your culture and your view or your attitude with regard to society and the world. But what is the problem? The problem is that in different cultures the same being can be classified in different ways. If you go to Azure for instance in Sancaun tree in the problem guide that is a specific known for European let's say the same behavior that in Europe I consider as common in that country I consider as offensive or not accepted we can say. And the same is the kind as for the people coming to Europe so there are differences in culture so imagine to transpose the difference in account of moderation when you have to decide to take down a video for instance in a platform like you too but of course what is the difference between joking or being the parameter. Something that in Italy can be considered as joking in another country can be considered very offensive according to the specific culture of that time. So you can imagine how much is difficult or platform to mind this kind of issue because there are some option the first option is to transpose in the global platform the mindset of the platform owners. And something that we have seen with Facebook you remember that famous decide to take down some paintings or some photos of women breast because it was considered as a game day time synchronization. How we can classify this attitude is a very conservative he has a brooch about sex with their concern. By the way you guys society is not so concerned but they are concerned about the fact that it's shown in the breast of a women is considered as a problem. And why if you look to the ancient Greek or a Brahman status and also post-hands in the following centuries there are a lot of nudity and nobody is concerned. And for the reason they also take down some paintings without any discrimination because the AI is not able to discriminate between a photo that I'm afraid is sometimes. The brother is that this reflect an approach that is the approach of the platform owner that true times and condition of the reason we mentioned the relevance of the counter in shaping the sphere. True times and condition decide what is the separate work now but according to its own touch if you can from Italy you can be considered hanging some provisions and remediation. Or if you can for another country you can see that to to low we can say the level of provision because another country is not a liberal breast but also other part of the position of the public show. So this approval of trans culture of dimension that can be addressed through a drop down regulation created this kind of issue or can be addressed in a more difficult way to a contestable based approach and what is now is doing by some of the big platforms. So created things with the local expertise with a variety of kinds of culture that can say this is not joking but in India it is not joking and it's different the same situation can be quite different based on the expertise of local experts that they able to provide the correct contextualization we can say of the message with regard to the counter that they see. And this just mentioned but I feel a bit assigned this also show another item part that I know if you discuss in other courses but it's also really difficult that editor would do not need to mention. The other issue is about the development of the eye that the eye is not that only true or the truth of society that you know but there are a lot of people, thousands of people that work here in the scene supporting this multi eye to the fact that it's not so smart. So leveling test leveling images removing content at sea. So large part of the other form is not based necessarily what you are going to remember this based on thousands of people that make this sort of debugging activity. Many of them love us images many of them take down context all these activities that is generally called mechanical security activity is something that we don't know but rise a lot of concern also in terms of ethical. So the logical approach because we talk about people in some low income country that are asked to stay eight hours in front of a shocking images about the child pornography violence or other kinds of content in order to support content removal in order to try and also to make possible a better out of a decision of content removal. This part of the human side of the artificial intelligence and some is missing the debate but is a relevant part of our increasing also investigated by the church at the global level. So this is about the trans culture of the mansion that we have to consider also when we discuss and when we address the issues related to digital technologies. And the last point is about the regular competition that is related to the previous two points. If there are different if we have seen that there are global problem and different territory and regulatory approach of course what it means means that this creates a sort of competition in regulating the global sphere of digital life. And because if different countries have different approaches in regulating at the 11 day terrible there's no any problem but who we regulate at global level what what will be the standard can be set up global as all the process. There is a trend in favor of a sort of a uniformity assert of our monetization you cannot leave having those as a different regulation we have to model less converge work assertive general approach this process of monetization is common in many many seconds and it's common also in the field of law. But if the certain point of different system different routes this means that this variety creates a regulatory competition what it means regulatory competition means that each geographical area each state or aggregation of state. We try to put the flag and say we regulate inter we regulate data we regulate content moderation in this way that is my way. This creates a problem of regulatory competition at international level in the international bodies or also in the bilateral interaction principle between the U and the US there is a fear struggle in order to decide who is the rule maker who is able to set the rule in a sphere that is bigger than its own original territory. We have seen that in data for instance the fact that the protection approach in Europe is expanding around the world of course is very positive and make the you give the you are leadership in terms of that protection regulation but for instance in US we are not so happy about that. We have now the right to real line that position with new specific regulation and based on the experience of this more much more reactive with the I regulation in the I regulation for instance Europe started to regulate to discuss about the regulation of the I was sort of of what the after that made the first step in this direction. But immediately the was the reaction from the US that the side not lose the despite like that and with that and they went to some kind of process and different kind of thing and now there is a lot of interaction between the US bodies mainly the needs that is the national institution for the standards and the field of technologies. And the you are the other to agree on some common part of course this is a limitation to the potential expensive you approach and the sort of general agreement between the big player not a part of the more compatible solution we can say in terms of the I regulation. So this regular competition is very strong in the is very relevant of course not only the digital sphere environment and the drafts are many other people in which the leadership of one country. And that's a regulation will extend to other country that are not to see the standard. Just to give you an example of now the large majority of the country around the world that adopt a better perfection low a lot of other perfection low that is based on the real standard. So this is a feeling which the you framework has an impact on global. Of course the dimension is one of the few many other like and the drafts environmental sector that you have more that is stronger than the UK one. Okay so after this introduction about the law and technology in general the relationship between the technology a few words about the other key concept that you have to know of course I mean I'm aware that it's not easy to follow all these different blocks. But the life hold introduction to our new subject the fact that we have no experience in the field of law is necessary to set the sound key notion I have to put the light from. On some aspect the concern in technology the role of low interaction between both and some key idea the territory regulation and the global regulation and in this case liability causes in the course during that of the course we will discuss about the law and legal requirement as we say the reality of the legal. The reality of the legal requirement legal provision is that can be enforced that we have to respect the law and if you don't there is a sanction or there is a kind of liability so we have to spend a few words about the liability of course there is a. A type of liability that is the criminal or I'm is something liability and this is not discussed in this life is also easy to understand a criminal liability is mainly personal liability usually it's not the company that is criminal liability but it's the individual person that is liable. So if there is a copyright infringement and this is a violation of the function with a criminal law you are the civil liability and the criminal liability that's many ones is according to the gravity of the action and different kinds of all the punishment we can say but all are based on the fact that there is a limitation of your rights. So the punishment can be paying money limitation or your rights property or putting someone in jail limitations with your freedom so that the final line that in the criminal practice is only a limitation of individual rights. The important point that you have to keep in mind is that the criminal liability such as the administrative liability this is not only a software for sanctioning not based on putting the people in jail but asking to pay money in the end of the game and extending this obligation to pay money not only to the actual person but also to the company but this to form the criminal and the administrative liability are based on the law and the criminal liability. So basically focus on the idea that they act in the public interest they are part of public law in this regard. So what I want to say I wanted to say that when someone is putting jail law to pay money this will not solve the problem of the damage that is or activity created is only the sanction that the state provided this person or entity. So first to finish the question second to limit that propensity or the tendency of other people to replicate the say bad behavior so the focus is the social interest not to have some kind of behavior put it in jail that can make the decision. And he was in this way in example to be asked not to follow the bad the bad but this do not solve the problem of the damage they create to give a very concrete example if there is an adabration they take a lot of information from your server and make a lot of money having access to bank account whatever you want. Of course they can be put in jail but it's not to resolve the problem that you have to a lot of damage in terms of cost that you have to cover and the people suffer of damage in terms of money that they have lost. And to recover this kind of cost you have to act through the legal action but in the civil law in the civil array and this is the liability. The civil law liability in this asking some form of a regress some forms of protection for the interest that the word in print by some behavior. Usually asking for money if you have a damage or restoring the previous situation as far as possible. So it's important to not to mix the two elements. The criminal sanction although it has some money is only for the state the money goes to the state and the money or other sanction are just to punish the person and to give a message to the right to the people. But this does not solve the problem of the damage suffered by the people that are the victims and the victims if they want any kind of case. Any form of restoring of this damage that they have suffered they have necessary to make a legal action. Then of course the legal action can be either civil law action or you can say a tort action in the common law system but an action based not a criminal law but based on private law we can say. So it's a private law action in some system like Italy this action can be also presented in front of the criminal court but remains a private law action because the goal is to have the payment of the damage of the original damage that they have. So in this regard with regard to liability of course in terms of regulation of technology there is an issue to define how we set the desire. Who is liable how far they are liable because there are two extreme positions if you want or one hand you can say every time that there is a damage the entity that created that damage is a crime. Liable of course if you adopt this approach is very good for the victims because they know we found that big but it is a huge burden that we put on the shoulder those that created damage. On the other hand there is a whole traditional approach based on court that also from addicts and from religion is the typical mindset you are liable because you have done something bad and you were aware that you have done something bad because it was intention to make something bad or it was a negative. So therefore it is a system. What is the problem the problem is the traditional approach that is based on court does not work well in the technology context because when you have a product that is relied by a machine for instance. So some problem in the functioning of the machine create a product with some specific weakness that is put in a car can create an accident who is liable. There is no one that has a code that case because it was the machine or the case in which there is a human for the reason you make a mistake in coding some part of a problem this creates a bug etc. So we are the people the person that is liable that is who code that part and no code that part but if the damage you created because the software was used by bank as a there is of a thousand or millions of euros. The single person that code that one is not able to pay so it's true that the whole system as able to identify an actor that is liable but that actor is not able to pay so intense of effectiveness of the legal solution is useless. For this reason in the corporate context in the industry that you can say we adapt the standards of the company typically is liable although there is not a fault but this is the fact that as created a certain product or service that may be there is some risk. So if you have a chemical company you make business using chemical products of course but chemical plants can create a great problem they don't work problem. It has a pollution and it has a environment of disaster and in that case you are liable regardless the fact that there is a fault or not. You are liable because you are those that are in the best position to control the risk that you have created and put in the society you have a biofitting from this risk you have to pay if there is a negative impact. Of course what is the problem the problem is when we set the threshold because when we are in the new areas for instance AI we can say oh this is not problem that is liable. He put a strict liable every AI producer is liable for all the damages that they create. So all the systems have a person that will pay a lot of concern about the potential malfunctioning of the problem created by AI system is so because there are always something that pays. But first if your doctor and extensive reliability the impact is that many investors are not investing a sector in which the risk to be liable and the risk is higher if technology is new. Because it is less known in this side effect and there are a lot of aspects that should be still to be fixed. So extending too much of the reliability can have a sort of achieving a right only investment in the sector. On the other hand if you were right only on the full reliability there is that technology that has new potential you create several risks. And of course at the end of the day there is no any person that is liable. So increase the concern of our consumers about the user about the citizen against this technology that also this is not good because if you don't like our concern they don't want to use that. So there is a risk to negative react to the implementation and stop or snow the implementation of this technology for this reason we have to find the right balance between the street and the full reliability and what is done for instance now the new proposal on the directive on AI liability that adopt some rules in that of street for a video producer but fix also some derogation to this liability. Or is that if you are complying with some standard the compliance of the standards is enough to say that you are not alive although the damage is green. So is an example of balance you are last week liable so without full but compliance with standard exam for liability. It means that you have an access strategy for focusing on the standard implementation that reduce your potential expensive liability. Other solutions that can be implemented are about the participation we can say in the game or rather active so he is just insured in the sector of drones not be that drones but gold drones for personal user. And in third account is there is a mandatory insurance because of cheaper with the 200 euro can buy a drone but playing and when they fall down of both can create damage also to the person and you are not necessarily enough money to cover this kind of cost so like in the car so you need to have a mandatory insurance so create an entity that can pay this kind of damage. So that insurance system is another way to address the problem maintaining the full liability but shifting the cost toward a company that on a large scale can mitigate the impact of the individual cost. It is also the problem of priority and watching people but the program in which we have this diabetes we find that drones flying that from our country or managing etc fall down falling down from several meters and landing on the add or someone open the and kill the person or open the car and destroy the car. And so this is the kind of concern so the drones it depends by the dimension by the way the center but under certain circumstances can create damages to people and to goods. And so for this reason some countries are required. Okay, specific categories are drawn for them some mandatory insurance of course if it is a small very tiny drone not able to buy the wide sector there are exceptions but if it is a big drone with a couple of people also wait and the falls down from several meters the problem exists. Okay, this is the problem. So insurance solution another solution for the big case is the role of the state for instance in the nuclear power we have the participation of the state because the cost of the damages created by malfunction in a nuclear center can be so big that cannot be addressed by the company that the manage the scratch. Another point that we have to take in account when it hits the root is that the diabetes is that it is too simple to imagine that if you put all on the show that the company is so very problem because the company then bankrupt and if they bankrupt the first pay bank and other partners that are ugly of protection then so convert all equipment and for the last they pay the damages people. So when there is a risk that the damage is so big like in the sector is much better to fix a three-shot image that still that pressure on the company can address and pay with their own money and for the right to imagine a sort of socialization of the call through the intervention of the state because if you don't the only solution that you file a company and the company no longer pay the last. That can ask examples of priority for the credit to the answer to people. So again another aspect of the answer regulation should be taken for granted. Okay here we have some reference if you like on this society or this society. This is something that we already mentioned by the design and these are example design and time and scale. So the five boys were being doing and the peer of Napoleon the third decide to destroy all the small feeds and that was by design approach because the lives these are much more difficult to be blocked in case of chaos and it's easier for the soldiers to resist to any protection in the big and large fields. All these devices that are other by design approach in order to make it. Other cast piece. This is something that we already say. This is all about the design approach but we repeat what we have already discussed about the dignitation of the approach and the impact of the by design approach. So I want to move now to another set of slides that is about data ethics and that I think is dividing to part. We start discussing now that I think even some ideas and then we recall the idea of data ethics when we discussed that after the protection part about the AI because in the area used data about the regulation and the first part of the proposal between 2016 to 2001 we add a lot of focus on AI and sorry a lot of focus on ethics and on that I and I mean to address the challenges of AI. So here we give some general notion about the data ethics but then we discuss more concrete how do we can say this issue when we have the topic of the regulation because for now is the only sector in which we have seen proper debates and expand to debate about that idea. So for the rest of the main things are theoretical or legal debate academic level but with the AI we have the flourishing of ethics code, ethics guidance and so forth we have a concrete implementation of the idea that I was this reason I will discuss AI in the last part of the first part of the legal aspect of this course we reconsider the ethical dimension but before start in the next part with my colleague is that we have a very focus on data protection what to just to I and I sign general notion about that ethics because it looks useful know that to understand better that the diction between law and ethics that is also reflected in that kind of reflection which so if we look at the ethics of course this is an image that can we could use the problem of the ethical use of technology this is a legal allows we all know that the problem that you use nuclear bomb in the world in the past and unfortunately something that was considered from the past is now drama for the present is the debate about the right and the potential use of the nuclear bomb although all the issues is back with always a very huge impact on population and the environment. So why I started with this photos because this photos usually represent the typical mind sex that's a characterizing the beginning of the debates about the ethics of technology because that ethics is a subtopic of I think of the knowledge such as that the protection is a subtopic of all technology we wish so we start for the main topic the main topic is ethics of technology. In the other technology that I did that was like that we have now so we are looking at the follow up the follow something that is out of you is a technology that create problem and rights issue and you discuss about the ethical dimension of this technology is ethical or an ethical using the radar symbols and which kinds of application they have to see But the way that I value it with the idea ofpowered applications for work. The same similar debate about the adequate use of the A-A power for work. So why I want to stress this point that we are sort of external approach because this was exactly the first approach that was adopted in the ethics of technology. So the first stage of the debate is the right because the technology, the technology or something that you can't judge if it's good or is bad. So typical debate on atomic bomb is it a missable or not? Is it good or not? As a role of that answer this reason is acceptable or should I have no any kind of roles because people we never meet in any case use of this kind of problem. So the technology is like an object, an artifact that you look and you evaluate. This is a typical approach that we have at the beginning. So standard part of you technology has a common sense of phenomena or just only in fact also such. This was the first approach that we see in the debate of data of ethics and technology. Then we move to another picture in this picture what you can see. You can see a bridge. This bridge is the hardest bridge of series of other bridge. That's where the Moses bridge. The bridge created the Moses was the architect that designed the double bond a large part of New York in 50s. And the Moses bridge are very big topic because this bridge are very peculiar elements. They are very low. The car can pass but the bus cannot pass under the bridge. At the time, the car can pass the bridge. So what was the antiquity problem about the Moses bridge? That this bridge was the position of this bridge. It was sort of barrier in other to access to a new area of seaside. And this bridge is very close to the Bronx. But people from the Bronx were not able to wish them because they cannot... Many of them are not that crowded. And the buses cannot pass under the bridge. So the bridge was the vital for the rich people that come from the other neighbor passing through the eye of the Bronx and arriving at the bridge. So this bridge, but it is very long bridge. For this bridge, some of those consider Moses as an architect driven by a Russia bias in his design. Because by design, you see the borders of design limiting the assets to black people, basically, or the poor people to the new bridges that were created. So why I chose this kind of border? Because this show another approach to the ethics of the country. Or we're currently to show another dimension, another face of the relationship between antiquity and technology. Because it's not so, no longer can we look at, but it's something that, at the sort of circular relationship with the world. So the more clear is not the artifact that you look like new people. What is the bridge that you look at at the same time limit also your situation? So there is a mutual relationship that technology have an impact on society and the society have an impact on their knowledge. The bridge limit the black people to reach the sea, but the bridge was done in this way because there was a Russia approach in society. And this Russia approach is reinforced by the technology. So in this regard, the technology is not longer something that we look at, so we consider it good or bad. But we see also another important dimension that is the fact that this interviewee is connected with our life. The fact that we have some kind of design of technology, impact, or is it if you drive a car, at the change of the car, you're going on the right. And if the right hand is not your favorite one, then this is a problem. But nobody cares because the majority of you use the right hand. So this is, and as a consequence, the people that use the left hand difficulty in driving should learn to use the right hand as the main one. And it is a change that technology induce in the behavior of these people. That is also our result of a majority of the approach of the society. So this mutual relationship, the society and technology and society, open up to a broader view of ethics of technology. Technology is not only something that we discuss, it is good or bad, but it is something that is much more complicated because it is the result of the society and is able to shape the society. So there are two different and more parallel relationships. I want to ensure that what we're saying is that the first approach is not fine for everybody or not to come in place with a mathematical order for everybody, but the only difference in the fine for people and not fine for us is right. Not exactly. I want to point out that there are two approaches and these approaches are in the times of evolution. The first initial approach to ethics of technology was simply look at the technology and consider if the technology is good or bad. But we don't realize that it is not technology that exists in a problem or most way. It is not a technology that is good or bad. Are we as society that create a technology that can be good or bad? So it is not the technology that is bad or it is good. But that is the value that we put in that technology that can be good or bad. So at the end of the day the problem is not in the technology, but isn't the way which is shape the technology. And another important step is that the way which is shape we shape the technology that we shape as a society. Or is this why a large part of it, the young people is no longer able to write a good text because they spend a lot of time texting in show messages. And in short matters, of course the kind of communication is different. And if you repeat that the exercise for hours, with your short messages in terms of communication, of course you are no longer able to make an extensive text. Oh, you can impact on your ability to have an extensive text. Or if you consider also what's that for instance, might have been probably recorded the message. And this idea to record the messaging is a shift from the traditional writing culture in messages to the oral culture. It's a changing value, it's a change of behavior of course. And this impact on the way in which we live. Consider another application, Google map. A lot of people move around in a new city using Google map. For now, this has no hand impact. In the long run, you can imagine that a lot of information about the geography of the area we've been moving. Because the people no longer look at the name of the street, no look at the direction or ask the people about the look at the smart. Equate some silly effects sometimes. But this means that Google is able to shape the way in which we shape the geography. It's dependent by the service. But there's impact on society because if you have no access to the service, if you have a lot of smart things, if you have more people that have no smartphone, you are not able to find the right direction in a space if the space became only smartphone based in terms of direction. So this is an example of the way in which we shape the technology that reshaped the society. The technology is no neutral. The technology always invades a certain kind of view, a certain kind of view. For this reason, we discussed about that idea. Because also in digital technology, the technology based on data, what we put is a specific view of the society. We reflect our mindset. Google considered that it's greater to have your direction in your smartphone. Why? Because they said this kind of product. Being a representative, though that was great, that we have a chat search engine in order to provide a better interaction. Recausance of this interaction is not so good. But what is the impact of society of a chat GPB approach? It's quite relevant to terms of anti-calus social impact. Because right now, if you are a scamping, you have a list of search. We can discuss about how the sources are outlined. If there is a bias of not in the positioning of data, but we have the sources. It means that if you work on the term, you have to select. And if you are well educated, you are also able to select the right sources. So if the top one is not so out there, the second one is the big one. You speak, but probably start from the second one, not from the first one. Because behind is a market oriented position. But if you make a question and the answer is not longer in the service, but it affects the given answer, combining these sources. Of course, this makes it a mystery. How many people will check the service if they have the answer? Only people will check the basis of the answer. Like when you read a scientific book, if you have not a academic or a good academic, you usually read the text, but this regards the footnote. But in the footnote, there are the requirements and the basis that justifies some assumption in the text. If the footnote is wrong, if the counter of the foot is not corresponding to the text, that is not what grammar is, that is a difficult reason. But if the changeivity search engine gives you the answer, a very good way, and gives you the answer about the instance donor-tromba and the role of donor-tromb in society. And in doing that, I don't know, to see if it is interpretation of the role of donor-tromba. And give you the source's value, do not look at the service. Because this change, the power, within you, is a search engine. Because the search engine is no longer a list of sources that became a sort of Oracle, in which you ask, can the Oracle provide the answer? And you trust in them. How do people trust in the answer when they ask for a speech? And they go in a wrong direction sometimes, because the Google marker in that case was not consistent with the last changes in the municipality. So sometimes happen, that you, according to the map, suggest that Google, you have to go in, try to only go in that direction, but the municipality has changed the direction, you have to stop. So, what about if this is the answer of the search engine? That say something that is not correct, you have to check. It's different of search engine, chat GPT power than a psychopath here. And in psychopath here, as beyond a scientific work, as a check, as a view, so it's true that provide you an answer, but this answer is tested by a scientific experience by people in the field. A check GPT is so changing as not this kind of a ground. Simply select content and march content based on some parameters that are present in the machine, but it's not a scientific problem, it's not a research algorithm. And this check may change the language society, and access to knowledge. And having access to knowledge is core element in democracy, in the research, many aspects of our society. So this is just to figure out some real case of potential implications of the technology that we developed also in the field of digital technology. For this reason, it's important, although the computer scientist, you developed some digital technology, to not consider only the technology aspect of our technology value, or the legal constraint, but consider also what is the impact of your technology on society, what is in the medium and the long run in impact of your technology at the time, because if technology can change society, but we have to ask if this change is according to the values existing in a specific society, or if simply a stop down exercise in which a company or a big company tries to shape the society in a way that is then available for the company, and we have some cases we discuss. So the point, the crucial point that is also represented by a theoretical approach that is the technology and radiation theory, the crucial point is that technology is not neutral. When you design something, you always design with your mindset. We have made example of social platforms, and we have hired a sitter or the previous sitter. So the idea is that when you make some kind of technology, that we call under-activity, you reflect in this technology your need. So for this reason we say that technology is not neutral. Self-meeting. The farmers' censorship, the one you talk about technology in a critical way. First, the value, I am rather the second point, the technology mediates between humans and the way in which the human society is. This is the ideal mediation. You see the things true technology. Let's give you an example. If you consider the proverb, all the enough, what do you think is the meaning of the word? If you consider the fact that they are damned when you are pregnant before the birth of the kids, of course, right now, with the choreography of the system, it is possible to know a lot. What was the effect of society? People can decide for abortion in this case. Before it was not possible, it was possible abortion because you did not do the right level of baby. But abortion based on normal functions, based on some specific disease, etc. Before it was not considered simple because it was not taken very possible to add that information. But now that you have this information, it is possible through the side in favor of abortion based on medical evaluation, we can say. So the technology changed the relationship between mother of a family and the future baby, based on something that before it was not possible. This is an example of how we see true technologies, things. And the same with the digital context. You see the word true, the search engine. The search engine gave you at least a content according to some criteria that have not their year worth. Maybe there is a very interesting article that is published on a very minor journal that is the best one on the topic. But the fact that the journal is not so well known, there is not a lot of clicking, there is not a lot of advertising. The set of this is not at the top of the results. So the technology mediates, and the same is when you use Mercedes or analytics to analyze society, etc. You always provide them a sort of description of their real work. That is mediated through technology. When you look at the map or the distribution or everything, it is always a mediation, it depends about the parameters, it depends about the variables that you consider, the granularity that you consider, etc. For instance, if you look at the doctoral activities and collect all the data through big data analytics, and you represent this information at the regional level, at the national level, then at the national level, the results may be very different. For instance, you can say, oh, in Biamont, there is a lot of activity in the doctoral sector compared with another regionalized basilicata. But then if you look at the Biamont, it is not true that in all the areas of the Biamont, there is a lot of industrial activities. There are some items which there is no any industrial activity. So the different level representation of granularity gives you a different kind of map, a different kind of information. And of course, this changed the perception of the society that we are. A second point that is important to allow that is the consequence, is that if the values can be embedded in the technology, including digital technology, of course we have to check which value we are embedding in technology. To check what it means, it means that first we should be more aware about our role as creator of this technology. For instance, I think that I mentioned with you the case of the insurance that the discriminated black people running through the night, we discussed that in that. There was an insurance that decided to put a black box in the car in a US. And of course there is some parameters in order to reduce the cost of insurance or increase the cost. One of the parameters was if you drive during the night or the early morning, because desire, because usually you come back from a party, you drink a lot of alcohol, and this is not good for driving. Well, that's the problem that there are also people that drive during the night or early morning, because they leave outside the big cities and go to the big cities for work, not exactly after a party, and they do clean offices and like that. And by the way, US, this thing they are usually done by black people or minorities. And so this created discrimination. And why the algorithm did not consider this aspect? Because what's created by May night computer scientists that never have the idea that you like happening the only morning to have to create something. But they consider that if you drive in the early morning, because you come back from a party, because in their own experience, this is the experience. So of course, computer scientists try to mitigate the bit of these bias, potential bias through having more of the group of design, etc. But it's not important that they're variety, because they face an after, the racial bias can be many other bias that exist. The problem is to be aware that we can unintentionally reflect our mindset in the creation, in the digital context. So for this reason, for instance, important having participatory approach in the design, including the user, including the target, because the target population can rise there, they say, oh, I'm a black guy. And you should not drive in the night because I don't get just back from our party. So the idea is that when we discuss about bias, large part of bias are not necessarily intentional bias. Of course, there are unintentional bias, there are applications that are by the in favor to advertise that, or in favor of some political approach is impossible. But this is not the main risk, the main risk are the unintentional bias. The bias that they're based on your mindset that you spontaneously reflect, and you cannot detect it because you have no table for you is normal. And this is exactly the process in shaping society, shaping technology, true technology, reflecting values. So if you consider that the black people should not go to the seaside with the white people all up and say they're in labor, of course the bridge is lower. So you reflect your intention in the system. And for this reason, someone said that it was not a rational approach in creating the bridge. Simply, it didn't consume the black people, that they're also black people that do not use car, but use buses. So for this reason, we have an ethical word design, and for this reason, it's important, a bi-design approach. Let's say, come the back time, we continue in the parks after that of election. I think that a key point that I want to highlight with regard to this slide is that the ethical approach may be possible to understand that not everything that is technically feasible is also adequately acceptable. There are some things that are technically feasible. You can't make some analysis, you can't use it in a certain way, but it doesn't mean that it's also acceptable, according to the value of the human society. I can use brain scan in order to determine if you are following my classes, but it doesn't mean that brain scan is the best for you as a student's community in order to be good students at the point of the day. So this distinction between technical feasible and societal acceptable, ethical acceptable is a very core element in terms of ethical design. I think we have stopped correctly. We continue, sorry, we have not finished.