 Technology about first role as usual. We have any question about the first part, something that is not clear, something that you want to ask. Or was everything okay? I don't know. Is that clear? No question? Yes. So, if there are no earners, the first show we can continue. Just briefly recap what we have said. We say that there is an interplay between low and technology. And the relationship between low and technology is the movement of certain things. That means that the low can be used in order to shape technology. But we can also use technology in order to implement some low provisions, some required behavior. That through the technology can be stronger in terms of constraints, in terms of the push to be in line. That will be in line with what is required by the low. This was the design approach. The idea is to create a design system that intrinsically limits the impossibility as regards the use of the device that is not aligned with the legal requirement. And this is the so-called bi-design approach that is used. And we have discussed about the opportunities under the station of this kind of application. So, in the next few years, we have to run the technology as a result of shaping the behavior according to the first push at the island of the building. And we make that whole of the idea and the system and the system. And the tool. And finally, we talked about the different kinds of approach in terms of our global low. Shaping technology, of course, is no necessary starting point, no necessary. The low made by the states, but you cannot start about enough process. Based on separation, based on cause of conduct that are quite irrelevant, maybe in the field of that approach. So, this was more or less what we discussed and when we discussed about risk as one of the key elements that the technology regression have to address. Because new technology increased the number of risks that are created in society. So, we have to face this kind of risk through two main instruments, the risk mitigation measure through the risk assessment or risk management. And in the case in which the risk is not possible to measure and properly assess the adoption of sort of preventive approach, precautionary approach. It means that you stop to put on the market, make a vulnerable user, some specific product application, to the fact that the risk is not still manageable, we can say. This doesn't mean that we stop the research and innovation in the field, but simply the product development in terms of something that can be used in a real world by consumers or user in general. We can have some trials in control environment, or we can continue the research in the research team and company. So, this is just to work out briefly the last point that to be outlined during the last classes. And now, upon that I want to rise to the fact that when we discussed about the data regulation, we discussed the main, of course, our public would be on the EU level, on the EU perspective, but there is not only the EU perspective. Also during the discussion we see that there is a lot of interplay between the EU context, we can say, and an area, mainly the US, because there is a quite sometimes difficult dialogue between the US and US, we regard that the transfer and the protection. But also other areas in which there is an increasing attention for the use of data, sometimes also based on certain ideas of severity. For instance, Russia and China and other countries, they want to sort of digitize a severity with an interpretation of this notion that it's very close to stick control over information and over electronic means of communication. So, in this context it's very important to have a mindset that is spoken during interaction between our model and other models that exist in other countries. Of course, we have not the opportunity to discuss all these issues of concern in the comparative approach to the protection box, we cannot apply and sign key points. And in our planning, these key points were to start from the idea that when we talk about data, when we talk about technology in general, as we already said, is not only the technology that exists per se, but the technology is part of society. The society of dimension is overlapping and connected with the technology dimension. In this regard, there are three elements that should be considered. The first one is the transnational nature of the relationship. The second one is the transcultural aspect of this relationship and the third one is the ongoing regulatory competition in the field of digital law. So, if we look at the transnational dimension of the relationship concerned in the application of technology and maybe digital technology, we can consider that for instance, if you look at products in digital products, you can see that products are very easy to be shared and distributed all over the world. And of course, digital products all over the world means that this raised problem of conformity with the national regulation. So, it means that in some countries, some products could be commercialized only on the certain specific requirements. So, this transnational dimension is something that we have to take into account when we talk about the product, when we talk about also protecting products such as copyrighted material, the city. Because of course, there is a problem concerning one hand, the conformity to the local standard and on the other hand, the increasing risk that in other countries, some provision that regulate and protect the materials, the product that you realize can be infringed. And this is the case instance of the copyright that's been for a long time, the case of the copyright. So, what it means, it means that the first issue related to the fact that why you want to put on the market in another country, in some products, you should take into account some restriction that might exist. For instance, there was an important case yesterday that was the debate case in which the true debate was made available some materials about the Nazi and fascist periods. And these materials were made available in France. And in France, there is a criminal law that forbid any kind of commercialization of Nazi and fascist materials. Unfortunately, we have not the same data. But in France exists, and so there was the problem that this material may be available online through the debate, where of course, available also in the French culture. And this is what we said last time on the difficulties in combining global network like internet and the traditional territory based approach of the state regulation. So, before internet was no any issues because if we have a shop and we put it in the shop as a Nazi symbol of materials, of course, the police can check and remove time and give you a sanction. But online is much more difficult because if you put something on a bad, this is available in France, in Germany, whatever you want. Including countries in which this is illegal. So, this has the problem of the transnational dimension of the internet. Of course, now, you see the limitation of this course. We cannot dig in all the issues and the way which we can solve or address this kind of problem. But just to point out that when you make something and make it available online, you have to consider that it is a volume in different jurisdiction. And in some jurisdiction, that activity of that brother can be not allowed by the law. And this can take problems for your business and for the development of your brother or for the family of your brother. On the opposite side, copyright infringement case is interesting because here we have a situation in which we have almost a general protection because we don't have to copyright. I have the right international agreement at very high levels. So, almost all the judicial recognized copyright and there is a sort of international monetization about the copyright regulation. So, here we have not a problem of a lot of differences among countries. But yes, we have a problem of enforcement of this provision. What it means? It means that if you have a copyright product that is made available for instance on your website or whatever you want, the same product can be download in the case of scientific paper for instance. It can be legitimately download by a user in your country but then reuse in another platform, legal platform, making it available for free in other countries for instance. I remember yesterday, was invited in China by the Chinese University and we had a nice and interesting meeting with the Chinese business man that this brilliant idea to grab and download all the scientific paper and make the available its own platform in China for the Chinese audience, we can say. And did I realize that it was not possible? Why not? I don't know, maybe it was not possible. Okay, since here is a copyright protection, you know we have to ask for and make an agreement. So, just to point out that it is not so general or exact to this idea that there exists protect materials. So it might be the case and it is the case that there are platforms that are website that redistribute protective materials without any authorization without any license. So of course in this case there is a problem of infringement, there is a clear infringement of the copyrights below. But what is the problem here related to the transnational dimension? The problem here is the enforcement because of course there is a problem that is clear that there is infringement but how to enforce in a country that is valid from your country. So, you have to make a legal action in that country, so it is pricing in that of course. You have to find in that country that when we know so strong with the implementation of policies on these kind of issues. And at the end of the day you also have to find a company or a natural person that is able to pay for the damage that they create. And sometimes you find a very small company that have no money, so you have to, of course you can stop the implicit behavior that is fine but you cannot have a compensation for the damages. Of course there are strong systems for criminal infringement for instance for the child abuse or child pornography etc. And it is possible through the legal provision according to the country to the criminal provision, you can stop at high level, at level of national system of yes and you cannot have access to the VIP that are selected because they distribute child pornography or rather in the recent country. This is a strong instrument because it is a block at level of networks so you cannot have access. But of course if it is good in terms of reducing the distribution of the material also in this case we have the problem of legal enforcement. So if you want to punish this people if you want to reach them and put them in jail of course again we have a problem of all the national dimensions. So you need the legal order that should be enforced in that country and if you have to arrest them make a trial in that country or ask for trial in your country for the international cooperation on the judiciary sector. So again it is part of this and this is a continuous struggle that is related to the fact that we have two dimensions, the national dimension, the international dimension of the network. And unfortunately the online network are more pervasive and more in material we can say than other network because we have also for instance global network for flights or for boots or for supply chains. But they are much more concrete we can say and it is easier to stop to some extent the flow so to regulate the flows. In internet this is much more difficult. There are many solutions that are made to circumvent the gate. If you want to stop some flights you can stop some flights coming from some camp because you act on the airport they cannot land in the airport. But in internet you cannot stop landing count in your country much more difficult. So this is the first aspect that we all have to take into account when we discuss about privacy or about the digital count and the safer. We could have the vast low in our country or in Europe but that is the problem what happens outside. How we can protect outside for this reason in the GDPR, in the proposal of AI Act, in the digital service acting many recent provision of the European Union. There is a focus on this extracurricular effect we can say and it is more and more required by the EU to have the power to extend the application of the law. Also outside the European Union border, one there is an activity that may affect the citizen or the people that live in Europe. It is something that we will see when we discuss about the scope of the GDPR. The GDPR is applicable not only to the company or the person that are based in Europe but also when foreign companies based another country process personal data affecting people that are in Europe. And this of course is an extracurricular application only when you look. This kind of extracurricular application again represents a derogation to the territory based approach of the state's vote. And of course create international levels, some reaction or conflicts with other countries because it means that you entitled your entity in this case the European Union to extend its power to something that is done in another country. And the fact that that activity may affect your citizens or the people living in Europe. Of course this essential power that you have done in another country in which for instance these activity are emitted or not regulated and create a certain clash between the traditional idea of state territory competence. It is accepted in some countries, accepted with regard for the protection for this because of course then there are geopolitical reasons, the scribes of the European Union market and the fact that there was also sort of perfect. You can say a sort of a precise way that approach the EU was able to convince many countries about the similar rules as regard of the protection of the so-called brass of effect that maybe we mentioned in the next class. So for a seriously reason for the moment in the field of data protection this extracurricular approach of the European Union has not created a lot of reaction only if he carries it. But of course it cannot imagine that we can always have this approach and on the other hand also other countries that say oh but we can do the same. And we can ask the PM provider to be compliant to the law in our countries although they are based in Europe. And of course this is required by countries that are not so democratic or yet it runs a lot of problem and concern. So this is a topic that I want to just outline because the rubbery discussed in the GDBF we are not trying to do too much on that but is behind the entire discussion on the background we have this big problem of the national dimension. Another big problem that we have not necessarily in data protection but for instance in content moderation or in the discussion about genetics is the transcultural dimension. Transcultural dimension means that there are not only different territories in terms of regulation but there are also different cultures. And the cultural dimension is more and more relevant when we imagine to create our own life using the suggestion by a famous philosopher. Our life means mixing the online and offline life. And in this experience that connects this to dimension of course your activity transposing the online environment can this activity represent your culture and your view or your attitude with regard to society and the world. But what is the problem? The problem is that in different culture the same behavior can be classified in a different way. If you go to Azure for instance in San Canterrey in the travel guide there is a specific note for Europeans let's say the same behavior that in Europe I consider as common in that country I consider as offensive or not accepted we can say. And the same if you read the guidelines for the people coming to Europe so there are differences in cultures so imagine to transpose the difference in account of moderation when you have to decide to take down a video for instance in a platform like YouTube but of course what is the difference between joking or being the parameter. Something that in Italy can be considered as joking in another country can be considered very offensive according to the specific culture of that time. So you can imagine how much is difficult or platform to mind these kind of issues because there are several options the first option is to transpose in the global platform the mindset of the platform owners. And it's something that we have seen with Facebook you remember that famous decide to take down some paintings or some photos of women breast because it was considered as a game day time and condition. How we can classify this attitude is a very conservative you as approach about sex with their concern by the way you as society is not so concerned but they are concerned about the fact that showing the breast of a woman is considered as a problem. And why if you look to the old ancient Greek or Brahman statues and also post-fantastic in the following centers there are a lot of validity and nobody is concerned. And for the reason they also take down some paintings without any discrimination because the AI is not able to discriminate between a photo and a painting sometimes. And the problem is that this reflects an approach that is the approach of the platform owner that through times and condition for this reason we mentioned the relevance of the contract in shaping the sphere. And the truth is that through times and condition decide what is a separate work not but according to its own culture if you can from Italy you can be considered planning some provision and some limitation. Or if you can for another country you can consider to know we can say the level of provision because another country is not a liberal breast but also other parts of the Polish not the public show. So this is a problem of trans cultural dimension that can be addressed through a drop down regulation created these kind of issues or can be addressed in a more difficult way to a contestable based approach and what is now is doing by some of the big platforms. So create these things with the local expertise with a variety in terms of culture that can say this is not joking but in India this is not joking and it's different. The same situation because we find different based on the expertise of local experts that they are able to provide the correct contestualization we can say of the message we draw the account that they see. And this is just a mention but I still have a bit of a scientist. This also shows another item part that I know if you discuss in other courses but it's also related to the topic of data editor which do not need to mention. The other issue is about the development of the AI that AI is not only through a growing and through computer scientists as you know but there are a lot of people, thousands of people that work we are in to see supporting this smart AI because the fact that it's not so smart so labeling tests, labeling images, removing content, etc. So large part of the ultra-formance is not based necessarily on the quality algorithm but it's based on thousands of people that make this sort of debugging activity. Many of them love us images, many of them take down context. All these activities that is generally called mechanical turkey and pivotism is something that we don't know but rise a lot of concern also in terms of ethical approach because we talk about people in some known income countries that are asked to stay 8 hours in front of shocking images about the chart. We are talking about the chart pornography violence or other kinds of content in order to support content removal in order to train also AI to make possible a better automatization of content removal. So this part of the human side of the artificial intelligence and some is missing the debate but it's a relevant part now increasing also investigative by research at the global level. So this is about the transcultural dimension that we have to consider also when we discuss and when we address the issues related to digital technologies. And the last point is about the regular competition that is related to the previous two points. If there are differences, if we have seen that there are global problems and different territory and regulatory approach of course what it means means that this creates a sort of competition in regulating the global sphere of digital life. And because if different countries have different approaches in regulating at total living day territory there's no any problem but who we regulate at global level. What will be the standard that can be set up global level? As all the process there is a trend in favor of a sort of uniformity and sort of harmonization. You cannot leave having dozens of different regulation. We have to model as converged with a sort of general approach. This process of harmonization is common in many many sectors and is common also in the field of global. But if the certain points are different systems different rules this means that this variety creates a regulatory competition. What it means regulatory competition. It means that each geographical area, each state or aggregation of states we try to put the flag and say we regulate it. We regulate data, we regulate content moderation in this way that is my way. This creates a problem of regulatory competition at international level in the international bodies or also in the bilateral interaction between the U and the US. This is a clear struggle in order to decide who is the role maker, who is able to set the rules in a sphere that is bigger than its own original territory. We have seen that in data for instance the fact that the protection approach in Europe is expanding around the world. Of course it is very positive and they give a leadership in terms of data protection regulation. But for instance in the US we are not so happy about that, but now they try to real line their position with new specific regulation and based on the experience are much more reactive with AI regulation. In the AI regulation for instance Europe started to regulate to discuss about the regulation of AI was sort of what the after that made the first step in this direction. But immediately it was the reaction from the US that they did not lose despite light weapons with data and they resigned to some counter proposals, some different kind of opinion. And now there is a lot of interaction between the US bodies, mainly the NIST that is the national institution of standards and the field of technologies and the EU bodies in order to agree on some common points. Of course this is a limitation to the potential expansive EU approach and there is a sort of general agreement between the big player and other to find a more compatible solution we can say in terms of AI regulation. So this regulatory competition is very strong and is very relevant. Of course not only in the digital sphere environment and the drafts that are many other fields in which the leadership of one country in terms of regulation was extended to other countries that had up to similar standards. Just to give you an example now the large majority of the country around the world that adopted that protection low and that protection low that is based on their standard. So this is a field in which the EU framework had an acting impact at global level. Of course as I mentioned it's one of the few many other like antitrust environment etc. and the US more that is stronger than the European world. So after this introduction about the lower technology in general and the relationship between lower technology and few words about the other key concept that we have to know. Of course I am aware that it is not easy to follow all these different blocks but the life hold introduction to our new subject to the fact that we have no any experience in the field of law is necessary to set some key notion. I have to put the light from some aspect concerning technology the role of law the interaction between both and some key idea the territory regulation and the global regulation and in this case liability. In the course during the course we will discuss about the law and legal requirement as we say the peculiarity of legal requirement legal provision is that can be enforced that we have to respect the law and if you don't there is a sanction or there is a kind of liability. So we have to spend a few words about the liability. Of course there is a type of liability that is the criminal or administrative liability and this is not discussed in this slide but it is also easy to understand. The criminal liability is mainly personal liability usually it is not a company that is criminal liability or if you are a section in corporate liability but it is the individual person that is liable. So if there is a copyright infringement for instance and this is a violation of the law you are a civil liability and the criminal liability that is many nuances according to the gravity of the action and different kinds of punishments we can say. But all are based on the fact that there is a limitation of your rights so the punishment can be paying money limitation of your rights property or putting someone in jail limitation to your freedom. So the final line in the criminal process is only a limitation of individual rights. The important point that you have to keep in mind is that the criminal liability such as the administrative liability is not only a softer form of sanctioning not based on putting people in jail but asking to pay money in the case of the case and extending this obligation to pay money not only to natural pensions but also to companies. But this two forms the criminal and the administrative liability are basically focused on the idea that they act in the public interest they are part of public law in this regard. So what I want to say is that when someone is putting jail or asked to pay money this will not solve the problem of the damage that is or activity created is only the sanction that the state provides this personal entity in order to first punish the person. Second talk limits that propensity or tendency of other people to replicate the same bad behavior. So the focus is the social interest to not to have a second of behavior put it in jail that committed this infringement and give us in this way an example to the odds not to follow the bad the path we can say. But this do not solve the problem of the damage they create to give a very concrete example if there is an adabration they take a lot of information from your server and make a lot of money I will ask to back account whatever you want. Of course they can be put in jail but it is not to resolve the problem that you have to a lot of damage in terms of cost that you have to cover and the people suffer damage in terms of money that they have lost. And to recover this kind of cost you have to act through the legal action but in the civil law in the civil array and this is the liability. The civil law liability in means asking some form of a regress and forms of protection for the interest that were infringed by some behavior. Usually asking for money if you have a damage or restoring the previous situation as far as possible. So it is important to not to mix the two elements. The criminal sanction although in terms of money is only for the state the money goes to the state and the money or other sanction are just to punish the person and to give a message to the rest of the people. But this does not solve the problem of the damage suffered by the people that are the victims. And the victims if they weren't any kind of a case of a risk of restoring of this damage that they have suffered they have to make a legal action. Then of course the legal action can be either civil law action or you can say a short action in the common law system but an action based not of criminal law but based on private law we can say. So it's a private law action in some system like in Italy this action can be also presented in front of the criminal court but remains a private law action because the goal is to have the payment of the damage of the restoration of the damage that they have. And in this regard we regard to liability of course in terms of regulation of technology there is an issue to define how we set this liability. Who is liable how far they are liable? Because there are two extreme positions if you want. On one hand you can say every time that there is a damage the entity that created that damage is liable. Of course if you adopt this approach is very good for the victims because there is always someone that big but it is a huge burden that you put on this show. Although those that created damage. On the other hand there is the whole traditional approach based on thought that also from ethics and religion is the typical mindset. You are liable because you have done something bad and you wear wear that you have done something bad because there was intention to make something bad or there was a negative. So the fault based system what is the problem the problem is the transition approach that is based on thought does not work well in the technology context because when you have a product that is realized by a machine for instance. There is some problem in the functioning of the machine create a product with some specific weakness that is put in a car can create an accident. Who is liable? There is no one that has a fault in that case because it was the machine. Or the case in which there is a human fault for instance you make a mistake in coding some parts of a program this creates some bugs etc. So we have the person that is liable that is who code that part and we know who code that part. But if the damage you created because the software was used by bank etc. is of a thousand or millions of euros. The single person that code that one is not able to pay. So it's true that the fault system as able to identify an actor that is liable. But that actor is not able to pay so in terms of effectiveness of the legal solution is useless. For this reason in the corporate context in the industrial opinion you can say we adapt standards of strict liability. Strict liability means that the company typically is liable although there is not a fault but this is the fact that as created a certain product or service that may be there some risk. So if you have a chemical company you make business using chemical product of course but chemical plant can create a great problem if they don't work properly. In terms of pollution in terms of environmental disaster and in that case you are liable regardless the fact that there is a fault or not. You are liable because you are those that are in the best position to control the risk that you are creating and putting the society. You have a benefit from this risk you have to pay if there is a negative impact. Of course what is the problem? The problem is when we set the threshold because when we regulate the new areas for instance AI we can say oh it's not problem in terms of liability. We put strict liability every AI producer is liable for all the damages that they create. So all the systems are the person that we pay and a lot of concern about the potential malfunctioning of the problem created by AI system is solved because there are always something that pays. But first if you adopt an extensive strict liability the impact is that many investors prefer not investing a sector in which they risk to be liable and risk desire if the technology is new because it is less known in this side effect and there are a lot of aspects that should be fixed. So extended too much strict liability can have a sort of chilling effect on the investment in the sector. On the other hand if you rely only on the fault liability there is that technology that is new so potentially create several risks. Of course at the end of the day there is no any person that is liable so increase the concern of humans about the user about the citizen against this technology that also this is not good because if people don't like our concern they don't want to use it so there is a risk to negative react to the implementation and stop or slow the implementation of this technology. For this reason we have to find the right balance between the strict and the fault liability and what is done for instance now in the new proposal on the directive on AI liability that adopt some rules in terms of strict liability for a producer but fix also some derogation to this liability. For instance if you are complying with some standards the compliance of the standards is enough to say that you are not liable although the damage is created. So is an example of balance you are strict liable so without fault but compliance with standard exempt for liability. It means that you have an access strategy focusing on the standard implementation that reduce your potential extensive liability. Other solutions that can be implemented are about the participation you can say in the game or rather actors for instance in Shiraz. In the sector of drones not me that drones but as both drones for personal user and in several countries there is a mandatory insurance for drones because of cheaper with a few hundreds of years we can buy a drone but flying out when they can't find the right way. So you can't find when they can't fall down or both can create damage also keeping person and you are not necessarily enough money to cover this kind of cost. So like in the cars you need to have a mandatory insurance so create an entity that can pay this kind of damage. So that insurance system is another way to address the problem. Maintaining the full liability but shifting the cost towards a company that on a large scale can mitigate the impact on the individual costs. What kind of problem can a personal person create for example one can buy their drone and see people's house. This is what you have made up. There is also the problem of privacy and watching people but the typical problem in which we have this liability is when the drone is flying that for malfunctioning or mal-managing etc. fall down falling down from several meters and landing on the add or someone opened and killed the person or opened the car and destroyed the car. So this is the kind of concern. So the drones it depends by the dimensions, by the way the center but under certain circumstances can create damages to people and to goods. So for this reason some countries require specific categories of drones but some mandatory insurance. Of course if it is a small very tiny drone not able to fly too high etc. there are exceptions. But if it is a big drone with a couple of kilos of weight and fell down from several meters the problem exists. So insurance is a solution and another solution for the big case is the role of the state. For instance in nuclear power we have the participation of the state because the cost of the damages created by malphatial nuclear center can be so big that cannot be addressed by the company that the manage the structure. Another point that we have to take into account when it picks the rules in terms of liability is that it is too simple to imagine that if you put all on the show that the company is so many problems because the company then bankrupt. And if they bankrupt the first pay bank and other partners that are ever legal protection time so contract agreement and for the last they pay the damages to people. So when there is a risk that the damages so big like in the industrial in the nuclear sector is much better to fix a three-shot image that did that for sure the company can address and pay with their own money. And further ask imagine a sort of socialization of the cost through the intervention of the state because if you don't the only solution that you filed the company and the company no longer paid the last that can ask in them so priority for the credited debt are damage people. So again another aspect that in terms of regulation should be taking into account. Okay here we have some reference if you like on digital society or risk society. This is something that we already mentioned by the design and these are example design and family's case or the files both of our that were being doing and the peer of Napoleon III decided to destroy all the small speeds. And that was a by design approach because the large speed are much more difficult to be blocked in case of chaos and is easier for the soldiers to resist to any protects in the large speed. Or this is the other by design approach in order to limit the cost speed. This is something that we already said. This is all about the design approach but we repeat what we have already discussed about the limitation of the approach and the impact of the by design approach. So I want to move now to another set of slides that is about data ethics. As data ethics is dividing to parts. We start discussing now that the ethics given some ideas and then we recall this idea of data ethics when we discussed after the protection part about the AI. The first part of the proposal between 2016 and 2001 we had a lot of focus on AI and a lot of focus on ethics and on data ethics as a means to address the challenges of AI. We give some general notion about data ethics but then we discuss more in concrete. We can say this issue when we address the topic of the regulation because for now is the only sector in which we have seen proper debate and extensive debate about that ethics. We have also discussed the last part of the first part of the legal aspect of this course. With the AI we have the flourishing of ethics code, ethics guidance and so forth. We have a concrete implementation of the idea of ethics. So for this reason we discuss AI in the last part of the first part of the legal aspect of this course. We consider the ethical dimension. Before starting the next part of my colleague, this is very far from data protection. I want to just to highlight some general notion about that ethics because it is also useful to understand better the distinction between law and ethics that is also reflected in data black show regulation. So if we look at the ethics, of course this is an image that can recall you the problem of the ethical use of technology. This is a legal for lots and we all know that the problem that we use in nuclear bomb in several parties of the world in the past and unfortunately something that was considered from the past is now directly represented in the past. We present the debate about the Russian potential use of nuclear bomb although more limited but with always a very huge impact on population and our environment. So why are we this photos because this photos usually represent the typical mindset that characterize the beginning of the debates about the ethics of technology because that ethics is a subtopic of ethics of technology. Such as that the protection is a subtopic of all technology we wish. So we start for the main topic the main topic is ethics of technology. In the ethics of technology the attitude was like the attitude that we have now. So we are looking at the fallout. So the fallout something that is out of view is a technology that create problem and rise issue and you discuss about the ethical dimension of this technology. So the ethical is ethical or unethical using nuclear webels which kinds of applications they have a signal. By the way it is the same discussion that we have right now with the AI powered application for worker. So the ethical use of the AI powered webels. So why I want to stress this point that we are sort of external approach because this was exactly the first approach that was adopted in the ethics of technology. So the first stage of the debate the ethics of technology consider technology or something that you can see you can judge if it's good for respect. So typical debate on atomic bomb is it a missable or not is good or not. As a role of that for this reason is acceptable or should have no any kind of roles because people are never meeting any case the use of this kind of. So the technology is like a magic and artifact that you look and you evaluate this is a typical approach that we have at the beginning. So standard part of you technology as autonomous phenomena focus only impact on society. This was the first approach that we see in the debates of data of ethics and technology. Then we move to another picture in this picture what you can see you can see a bridge. This bridge is a famous bridge a series of other bridge that where the Moses bridge the bridge created the Moses Moses was the architect that designed the town of the large part of New York in. So the Moses bridge is a very evaded topic because this bridge and a very peculiar elements they are very low. The car can pass but the bus cannot pass under the bridge. So what was the ethical problem about the Moses bridge? The bridge was the position of this bridge with a sort of barrier in order to access to a new area of seaside where there were new beaches. This bridge is very close to the Bronx but people from the Bronx were not able to wish them because they cannot, many of them have not a private car. The buses cannot pass under the bridge. So the bridge was a vital for the rich people that come from the other neighbors passing through the area of the Bronx and arriving at the beach. So for this reason, for this reason some authors consider Moses as an architect driven by a russia bias in his design because by design you see the importance of design limiting the assets to the black people basically or the poor people to the new beaches that were created. So why choose this kind of photo? Because this show another approach to the ethics of technology or more correctly it shows another dimension, another face of the relationship between Edison and technology. Because it is not so, no longer something that we look at but it is something that as a sort of circular relationship with the work. So to be more clear is not the artifact that you look like the new couple but is the bridge that you look at at the same time limit also your circular. So there is a mutual relationship that technology have an impact on society and the society have an impact on the technology. The bridge limit the black people to reach the sea but the bridge was done in this way because there was a russia approach in society and this russia approach is reinforced by the technology. So in this regard the technology is not longer something that we look at so we consider it is good or bad but we see also another important dimension of technology that is the fact that this interview is connected with our life. The fact that we have some kind of design and technology impact or is it if you drive a car at the change of the car is only on the right. And if the right hand is not your favorite one of four this is a problem but nobody cares because the majority of you use the right hand. So this is and as a consequence the people that use the left hand typically in driving should learn to use the right hand as the main one and is a change that technology induce in the behavior of these people that but is also a result of a majority of the approach of the society. So this mutual relationship between society and technology and society open up to a broader view of ethics of technology. Technology not only something that you discuss is good or bad but it is something that is much more complicated because it is the result of the society and is able to shape this society. So there are two different and more very relationships. Please. So I want to ensure that what you're saying is that the first approach is not fine for everybody or not for going in place. Is that something that for everybody but building a bridge can be fine for some people and not fine for others. Not exactly. I want to point out that there are two approaches and these approaches are in the times of evolution. The first initial approach to ethics of technology was simply look at the technology and consider if technology is good or bad. But we don't realize that is not technology that exists in autonomous way. Is not a technology that is good or bad. Are we as society that create a technology that can be good or bad. So is not the technology that is bad or is good but that the value that we put in that technology that can be good or bad. So at the end of the day the problem is not in the technology but is in the way which is shape the technology. And another important step is that the way which is shape we shape the technology then we shape as a society. For instance why a large part of Italy young people is no longer able to write a good text because they spend a lot of time texting sharp messages. And in short messages of course the kind of communication is different. And if you repeat the exercise for hours to use some messages in terms of communication of course they are no longer able to make an extensive text. Oh we can impact on your ability to have an extensive text. Or if you consider also what's that for instance. Many of you probably record the messages. And this idea to record the messaging is a shift from the traditional writing culture in messaging to the oral culture. It's a changing part of it. It's a change of behavior of course. And this impact on the way in which we live. Consider another application. Google map. A lot of people move around in a new city using Google map. For now this has no impact. But in the long run we can imagine that a lot of information about the geography of the area we've been removed. Because the people no longer look at the name of the street or look at the direction or ask the people but look at the smart. With some silly effects sometimes. But this means that Google is able to reshape the way in which we shape the geography. It's dependent by the service. But this impact on society because if you have no access to the service. If you have a lot of smart phones. If you have poor people that have no smartphone. You are not able to find the right direction in a space if the space became only smartphone based in terms of direction. So this is an example of the way in which we shape technology. They reshape the society. Technology is no neutral. But it is obviously invading a certain kind of view. For this reason we discussed about data ethics. Because also in digital technology, in the technology based on data. What we put is a specific view of the society. We reflect our mindset. Google consider that it's greater to have your direction in your smartphone. Because they said this kind of product. Being a representative told that it was great to have a chat search engine in order to provide a better interaction. Recavres the fact that this interaction is not so good. But what is the impact of society of a chat GPB approach? It's quite relevant in terms of ethical and social impact. Because right now, if you are scanning, you have a list of sources. We can discuss about how the sources are blinded. If there is a bias of not in the position of data. But we have the sources. It means that if you want to understand, you have to select. And if you are well educated, you are also able to select the right sources. So if the top one is not so alternative and the second one is a big, you speak, but probably you start from the second one. And not from the first one. Because behind there is a marketer-oriented position in yours. But if you make a question and the answer is not longer, it's not a long list of sources. But this affects the give you the answer. Combine these sources. Of course, this makes it an the source. How many people will check the sources if they have the answer? If you have the academic or good academic, you usually read the text, but you disregard the footnotes. But in the footnotes, there are the upper comment and the basis that justifies some assumption in the text. The footnotes are wrong. If the counter of the footnotes is not corresponding to the text, it means that the text is not to background if it has a specific reason. But if the chance GPT is changing, give you the answer in a very good way and give you the answer about, for instance, Donald Trump and the role of Donald Trump in society. And in doing that, I thought the specific interpretation of the role of Donald Trump and give you the sources value, do not look at the sources. Of course, this change the power between you and the search engine. Because the search engine is no longer a list of sources, but became the sort of Oracle. In which you ask, can the Oracle provide the answer? And you trust in the answer. How do people ask the people trusting the answer Google when they ask for a street? And they go in the wrong direction sometimes, because Google Martin, in that case, was not consistent with the last changes in the municipality for instance. So that's happened. According to the map, just by Google, we have to go in the straight along and go in that direction. But the municipality has changed the direction. You have to stop. But what about if this is the answer of the search engine? That says something that is not correct. You have to check. It's different the search engine chat GPT power than an encyclopedia. An encyclopedia, sorry. An encyclopedia as beyond the scientific work, as a check, as a review. So it's true that provide you an answer, but this answer is tested by a scientific experience by people in the field. A chat GPT search engine has not this kind of a ground. Simply select content and much content based on some parameters that are set in the machine, but it's not a scientific output. And this check may change the way which society allows us to knowledge and having access to knowledge is core element in democracy, in research, many aspects of our society. So this just to figure out some real case of potential implication of the technology that we developed also in the field of digital technology. For this reason is important. Also as a computer scientist, why you developed some digital technology. Do not consider only the technology aspect of the economic values. Also legal constraint, but consider also what is the impact of your technology on society. What is in the maybe on the long run the impact of your technology is society. Because if technology can change society. But we have to ask if this change is according to the values that exist in a specific society. Or if simply a stop down exercise in which a company or a big company tried to shape the society in the way that is designated for the company. And we had some case that we discussed. So the point crucial point that is also represented by a theoretical approach to that is the technology radiation theory. The crucial point is that technology is not neutral. When you design something you always design with your mindsets. We have made example of social platforms and the values of the city or the most greatest of cities. So the idea is that why you make some kind of technology directly or indirectly, you reflected this technology your new. So for this reason we say that technology is not neutral. Self-meeting is a farmer's censorship that when you talk about technology in a critical way. So first the value I embedded the second point is technology mediates between humans and the way in which the human society is the ideal. So if you see the things through the technology let's give you an example. If you consider the proverb analysis all the analysis. Why because I know? If you consider the check that are down there where you have bright news before the birth of the kids. Of course right now with the choreography or other system is possible to know a lot. What was the effect of society? People can decide for abortion in this case. Before was not possible. It was possible abortion because you did not do the right level of baby. But abortion based on functions, based on some specific disease etc. Before was not considered simply because was not taken even possible to have that information. But now that you have this information is possible through the sign in favor of abortion based on medical evaluation we can say. So the technology changed the relationship between mother of the family and the future baby based on something that before was not possible. This is an example of how we see true technology things. And the same as in the digital context you see the world through the search engine. The search engine give you a list of content according to some criteria that are not the real world. Maybe there is a very interesting article that is published on a very minor journal that is the best one on the topic. But the fact that the journal is also well known there is not a lot of clicking. There is not a lot of advertising. They say that this is not at the top of the results. So the technology mediates and the same is when you use the Mercedes or analytics to analyze society etc. You always provide them a sort of description of their real world. That is mediated through technology. When you look at the map of the distribution or everything is always a mediation depends by the parameters. It depends by the variable that you consider the granularity that you consider etc. For instance if you look at the industrial activities and collect all the data through big data analytics. And you represent this information at the regional level, at the national level, at the local level. The results may be very different. For instance you can say, oh in PMON there is a lot of activity in the industrial sector compared with another regional and international level. But if you look at PMON there is not a lot of industrial activities. There is no other industrial activities. So the different level of representation of granularity gives you a different kind of map, a different kind of information. And of course this changes the perception of the society that we have. And second point is that it is important to allow that it is the consequence is that if the values can be embedded in the technology, including digital technology, of course we have to check which value we are embedding in technology. To check what it means, it means that first we should be more aware about our role as creator of this technology. For instance I think that I mentioned with you the case of the insurance that discriminated black people down in the United with this car setting in that. There was an insurance that decided to put a black box in the cars in the US. And of course there is some parameters in order to reduce the cost of insurance or increase the cost. One of the parameters was if you drive during the nights of the early morning because this is a year because usually you come back from a party you drink a lot of alcohol and this is not good for driving. Well what's the problem? There are also people that drive during the night here early morning because they leave outside the big cities and go to the big cities for work not exactly after a party and do clean offices and like that. And by the way you answer this thing they are usually done by black people or minorities. And so this created discrimination. And why they are going to did not consider this aspect? Because what's created by may not computer scientists that never have the idea that you like happening early morning to have to clean something. But they consider that if you drive in early morning because you come back from a party because in their own experience this is the experience. So of course people started trying to mitigate the bit of this bias, potential bias through having more of the group of design etc. But it's not important that the variety because they face a lot of the racial bias can be many other bias that exists. The problem is to be aware that we can unintentionally reflect our mindset in the creation in the digital context. So for this reason for this is important having participatory approach in the design including the user and including the target because the target population can rise there and say oh I'm a black guy. I usually do not drive in the night because I don't get just back from our party. So the idea is that when we discuss about bias large part of the bias are not necessarily intentional bias. Of course there are intentional bias, there are applications that are bias in favor to advertise there or in favor of some political approach etc. But this is not the main risk, the main risk are there unintentional bias. The bias that they based on your mindset that you spontaneously reflect and you cannot detect because they are not able for you is normal. And this is exactly the process in shaping society, shaping technology, true technology reflecting values. So if you consider that the black people should not go to the seaside with the white people all up and say they're in labor of course the bridge is lower. So you reflect your intention in the system and for this reason someone say that it was not a rational approach in creating the bridge. Simply you didn't consider the fact that there are also black people that do not use car but use buses. So for this reason we have an ethical word design and for this reason important a bias design approach. So let's say come about that we continue in the part after that the production. I think that a key point that I want to highlight with regard to this slide is that the ethical approach make it possible to understand that not everything that is technically feasible is also ethical acceptable. There are some things that are technically feasible you can make some analysis you can use it in a certain way but it doesn't mean that is also acceptable according to the value of your society. I can use brain scan in order to depend if you are following out my classes but it doesn't mean that brain scan is the best for you as a students community in order to be good students at the body deck. So this distinction between technical feasible and societal acceptable ethical asset is a very core element in terms of ethical design. I think we have stopped in this direction. We can do so we have not finished.